00:05:32	wolovim:	gm timezone shiftooors
00:07:31	Manu:	https://hackmd.io/JLER6rPgTP6Uk0wd0yCpPA?view
00:10:10	nflaig:	we are working on the lodestar zero proofs bug
00:13:13	Barnabas:	sorry baby in the background going wild.
00:13:46	Manu:	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ‘¶
00:13:55	wolovim:	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ˜‡
00:14:10	draganrakita:	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ‘¶
00:14:50	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ‘¶
00:15:01	Csaba:	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ‘¶
00:15:23	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ‘¶
00:15:25	Barnabas:	Anyone from lodestar could comment on this bug?
00:18:48	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Yes not critical for us too
00:20:56	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "sorry baby in the ba..." with ğŸ‘¶
00:22:58	raxhvl:	Latest results for BAL test v1.3.0
---
Overall - 98%
-----
* Besu - 100%
* Reth - 100% 
* Geth - 99%
* Nethermind - 91%
00:23:06	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Latest results for B..." with ğŸ”¥
00:23:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Latest results for B..." with ğŸ”¥
00:23:08	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Latest results for B..." with ğŸ”¥
00:23:23	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Latest results for B..." with ğŸ”¥
00:23:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Latest results for B... with "ğŸ”¥"
00:23:27	felipe:	Reacted to "Latest results for..." with ğŸ”¥
00:24:54	draganrakita:	Do you mean coinbase change?
00:24:59	draganrakita:	It should be included
00:26:07	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Btw, EIP-7928 breakout happening on wednesday, 2pm UTC. 
00:26:24	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Btw, EIP-7928 breako..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:16	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Btw, EIP-7928 breakoâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:27:28	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/releases/tag/v1.6.0-beta.2 

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/releases/tag/v1.6.0
00:28:19	felipe:	Reacted to "Btw, EIP-7928 brea..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:41	draganrakita:	We are planing Reth release for Wednesday.
00:28:50	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Teku release in progress. Should be out n a few hours
00:28:54	Marius van der Wijden:	Geth is working on a release, either today or tomorrow
00:29:12	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Nethermind Yes
00:29:31	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	60M default for teku already in past release too
00:29:52	Phil Ngo:	Lodestar is working on a release pending this fix with the zero proofs. We could release but it would be incomplete. Weâ€™ll take a look to see if we can get it fixed by today
00:30:06	Fredrik:	Can we discuss the mainnet plan for 2 min after the release topic?
00:30:12	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Is there any deadline for releases to have input for blogpost etc? As worst-case may be we will release tomorrow.
00:30:28	Fredrik:	(Upgrade & incident response plan)
00:30:48	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	So deadline 5th
00:31:20	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	OK for Neth - gives us a bit more time to make better version
00:32:51	James:	I donâ€™t think we would make Wednesday. We wouldnâ€™t have any time to soak the release
00:32:53	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Is it reasonable 5th for prysm?
00:33:38	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Release candidate can be 5th for Prysm maybe?
00:33:40	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	What about LH?
00:34:17	James:	Replying to "Is it reasonable 5thâ€¦"
I mean under best case maybe but itâ€™s going to be really hard I donâ€™t think itâ€™s reasonable based on our release process
00:34:43	Manu:	Replying to "Is it reasonable 5th..."

5th release candidate, not release for sure
00:36:51	Marius van der Wijden:	Anything we can help clients with wrt. releasing?
00:37:18	Barnabas:	Replying to "Anything we can help..."

pushing buttons ğŸ˜„
00:37:21	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethsteel/pm/issues/7
00:38:02	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Same, pls ping me on TG if the networking team can help in any way (reviews, testing, impl, etc.)
00:38:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	is the idea to go though all of them? or identify the highest impact ones and only assess those?
00:39:02	spencer-tb:	Replying to "is the idea to go th..."

All of them I believe!
00:39:37	Barnabas:	Even EIPs besu/erigon/reth
Odd EIPs geth/nethermind/nimbusel
00:39:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we might have a first batch of decisions this week on acde as well, with some first DFIs
00:39:47	wolovim:	Forkcast rank page is back up, in case helpful for client team scoping preferences: https://forkcast.org/rank
00:39:51	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Even EIPs besu/erigo..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:40:51	Barnabas:	@lightclient sounds like a skill issue ğŸ˜‚
00:41:53	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	+1 to @lightclient, we are overwhelmed from OCL side on what to prioritize for review
00:42:14	Marius van der Wijden:	I think its easiest to talk about what to kick/deprioritize quickly
00:42:22	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think its easiest ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:42:23	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think its easiest â€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:42:25	raxhvl:	Reacted to I think its easiest ... with "ğŸ‘ğŸ¼"
00:42:44	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I think its easiest ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:42:55	felipe:	Reacted to "I think its easies..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:43:16	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I think its easiest ..."

Thereâ€™s some that are really undespecâ€™d, we should start with kicking those out
00:44:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	within repricings, Maria also posted a document on bundling options for repricings

so the core EIPs within that document would be the highest priority from the repricings
00:44:56	Fredrik:	https://github.com/ralexstokes/pm/blob/fusaka-pm-docs/Fusaka/fusaka-mainnet-plan.md
00:45:59	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "within repricings, M..."

Could you link?
00:46:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "within repricings, M..."

https://notes.ethereum.org/@misilva/SkkvIsxk-g
