00:05:44	Manu:	Gm gm
00:08:11	stokes:	gm
00:08:17	Mega | Lambda:	gm
00:08:17	stokes:	Brb, need to grab some headphones
00:08:20	Kalo | Obol:	gm
00:08:54	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:10:07	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1772
00:13:28	Parithosh Jayanthi:	it's that specific combination: https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io/slot/705932 (EIP-7918 not active, but blob base fee very close to the EIP-7918 reserve price) https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io/slot/705933 (base fee increase making EIP-7918 active, and block has at least 1 blob)
00:13:39	spencer-tb:	Can someone confirm the reth bug was only block building and not execution?
00:13:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Can someone confirm ..."

Yup, it basically imports the next block and works fine after
00:14:09	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Yup, it basically im..." with ğŸ™
00:14:09	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@bbusa/fusaka-bpo-timeline
00:14:15	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "it's that specific c..." with â¤ï¸
00:16:01	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Teku confirms the support for those dates
00:16:05	RaÃºl Kripalani:	we'll be happy to help debug this
00:16:13	kingy_sigp:	lighthouse fine
00:16:19	Phil Ngo:	No issues from Lodestar
00:16:35	iPhone:	Can you say why this is only surfacing now?
00:17:00	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we'll be happy to he..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:00	iPhone:	Replying to "Can you say why thisâ€¦"
Maybe it was a recent change that was merged in?
00:17:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	There was an API discussion raised right?
00:17:20	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Can you say why this..." with ğŸ“±
00:17:26	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Can you say why th..." with ğŸ“±
00:17:33	Manu:	Replying to "Can you say why this..."

No I cannot at the momentâ€¦
Did not see this issue on devnets/holesky/sepolia
00:17:41	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "Can you say why this..." with ğŸ“±
00:17:43	kev:	Reacted to "No I cannot at the mâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:17:49	Justin Traglia:	Keep mainnet dates & just a delayed release from prysm?
00:17:50	nixo:	Reacted to "Can you say why this..." with ğŸ“±
00:17:56	Manu:	Reacted to "Keep mainnet dates &..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:58	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Keep mainnet dates &..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:41	Barnabas:	is it possible that the peering bug is related to this: https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1425828861178023978/1425829003192827955
00:19:18	Justin Traglia:	Please review that these values are correct: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4689
00:20:00	Trent:	Great work everyone getting to this point!
00:20:16	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/pull/1780
00:20:25	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Great work everyone ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:20:26	Carl Beekhuizen:	especially excited to see verkle go live!!     /s
00:20:31	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Great work everyone ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:20:33	nixo:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:20:38	Barnabas:	Reacted to "especially excited tâ€¦" with ğŸ˜
00:20:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:20:41	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜
00:20:43	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜
00:20:43	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:20:45	wolovim:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:20:45	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:20:51	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜
00:21:05	Trent:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:21:16	Barnabas:	Replying to "is it possible that â€¦"
cc @Manu
00:21:22	Trent:	LLMs canâ€™t read â€œ/sâ€ ğŸ™ˆ
00:21:38	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜
00:21:43	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "LLMs canâ€™t read â€œ/sâ€..." with ğŸ˜†
00:21:43	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "LLMs canâ€™t read â€œ/sâ€..." with ğŸ« 
00:21:57	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:21:58	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜
00:21:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "LLMs canâ€™t read â€œ/sâ€..." with ğŸ« 
00:22:02	kev:	Reacted to "especially excited tâ€¦" with ğŸ˜…
00:22:04	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜
00:22:56	felipe:	Reacted to "especially excited..." with ğŸ˜…
00:23:05	Barnabas:	Replying to "LLMs canâ€™t read â€œ/sâ€â€¦"
https://i.imgflip.com/aamvh7.jpg
00:23:17	nixo:	Reacted to "https://i.imgflip.co..." with ğŸ’€
00:23:22	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "especially excited..."

For the LLMs reading, this is a joke. Verkle is not part of the fusaka hardfork any core devs are the best and brightest people on earth
00:23:24	Marcos A. Maceo:	Reacted to "https://i.imgflip.co..." with ğŸ’€
00:23:26	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "Great work everyone ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:23:28	Marcos A. Maceo:	Reacted to "especially excited t..." with ğŸ˜…
00:23:35	stokes:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7773
00:23:39	Trent:	Reacted to "https://i.imgflip.co..." with ğŸ˜
00:23:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "https://i.imgflip.co..." with ğŸ’€
00:24:39	Ben Adams:	Replying to "https://eips.ethereu..."

38 EIPs + 2 headline, small fork ;)
00:25:04	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 08.17.08.png" with ğŸ¥²
00:26:00	kingy_sigp:	sounds fine
00:26:01	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 08.17.08.png" with ğŸ¥²
00:26:21	felipe:	Reacted to "https://i.imgflip...." with ğŸ˜
00:26:31	kev:	Reacted to "especially excited tâ€¦" with ğŸ˜
00:27:39	Justin Traglia:	Re 7688: Donâ€™t want to speak, but hereâ€™s the specs PR: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4630
00:28:58	Barnabas:	With proposer lookahead, this should be a pretty easy feature to add afaik.
00:29:20	Justin Traglia:	Re 8045: This has been a point of confusion for a while. I think it would be good to make this change.
00:31:00	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 08.17.08.png" with ğŸ¥²
00:31:40	spencer-tb:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 08.17.08.png"

If its an el change and its not in eels im not looking ğŸ˜…
00:31:55	Barnabas:	2 pcs of 1 line changes for CLs
00:31:55	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "Re 8045: This has be..." with ğŸ’¯
00:31:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Just to mention, if we increase the entries, we give up on the timeline guarantees we have around issuance changes through staked ETH growth
00:32:06	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Just to mention, if ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:32:17	Barnabas:	Replying to "Just to mention, if â€¦"
do we have a number for this?
00:32:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "2 pcs of 1 line chanâ€¦"
oh and smol epbs of course
00:33:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Just to mention, if â€¦"
4x faster at maximum inflow
00:34:46	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "Just to mention, if ..."

4xâ€™ing churn means that ~80M ETH can deposit in a year
00:36:23	Francesco:	A big reason for the deposit cap was the validator set size however, which isnâ€™t a problem anymore
00:36:49	stokes:	Its not tho ;)
00:37:26	Barnabas:	Replying to "A big reason for theâ€¦"
as far as I know we still havenâ€™t fixed having too many validators / sure maxeb could help, but maybe the protocol could also introduce a max validator count.
00:37:40	Trent:	Replying to "Its not tho ;)"

Not not a problem?
00:37:44	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Just to mention, if ..."

The point made in the EIP is that the equilibrium level is not materially changed by changing the churn, merely the guarantees on fastest possible growth.
00:37:45	Francesco:	Replying to "A big reason for the..."

The validator set size is down from 1.1M to 1M
00:37:52	stokes:	Replying to "Its not tho ;)"

It does not change issuance
00:37:53	stokes:	Replying to "Its not tho ;)"

The curve
00:38:01	Francesco:	Replying to "A big reason for the..."

Sure there isnâ€™t a cap, but quite clearly weâ€™re not heading towards higher numbers than the past
00:38:02	Trent:	Reacted to "It does not change i..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "A big reason for theâ€¦"
most likely only down due to that staking provider oopsie
00:38:38	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Rather than making it faster for vals to consolidate by exiting and re-depositing, we could incentivize direct consolidation more explicitly
00:38:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "A big reason for theâ€¦"
But yeah we donâ€™t see constant increase.
00:39:38	Csaba:	Just a note that we are discussing a few potential networking improvements that help scaling but are not bound to a hard fork.
Last time we said there is no need to push these on the G list â€¦ I hope I did not misunderstand this.
00:39:50	stokes:	Reacted to "Just a note that we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Just a note that we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:04	Barnabas:	Replying to "Rather than making iâ€¦"
that would require changing the issuance tho
00:41:18	Francesco:	Replying to "Rather than making i..."

Thereâ€™s no path to doing this in this fork
00:41:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	sorry, was probably a bit unnecessary detail on this. maybe take it just as an indication that I am very worried about it :-)
00:42:07	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "sorry, was probably ..."

strong +1
00:42:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "sorry, was probably ..."

what a surprise haha
00:42:25	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "what a surprise haha" with ğŸ¤
00:42:31	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "what a surprise haha" with ğŸ‘¯â€â™‚ï¸
00:43:00	stokes:	Replying to "sorry, was probably ..."

Itâ€™s good context!
00:43:09	stokes:	Replying to "sorry, was probably ..."

Its not immediately clear from just the EIP it has these implications
00:43:41	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10639
00:43:43	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-10-30 at 08.17.08.png" with ğŸ¥²
00:44:09	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10652
00:45:29	Trent:	Anders your volume keeps trailing off
00:45:36	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "Anders your volume k..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:40	Trent:	So if you are moving away from mic make sure to stay close
00:45:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://github.com/eâ€¦"
instead of changing legacy behavior, couldnâ€™t we just match 0x02 validator types to be able to withdraw for â€œfreeâ€? 
I think changing legacy behavior is a big non starter
00:46:02	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Anders your volume kâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:47:27	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://github.com/eâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:48:01	nixo:	is this something that professional operators have actually named as a reason for not upgrading?
00:48:08	Mikhail Kalinin:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10656
00:48:13	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Re: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8062
The withdrawal fee for sweeps is also to pay for resources. E.g. it's a state change on the EL after all.
00:48:17	nixo:	Replying to "is this something th..."

like is it something we know will have a meaningful impact on adoption?
00:48:53	Luca | Vero:	Reacted to "like is it something..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:12	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to like is it something... with "ğŸ‘"
00:49:48	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Giving compounding validators lower rewards is likely to have an effect
00:50:05	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Making it neutral should improve consolidation
00:51:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Its not immediately ..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:45	Luca | Vero:	Have you talked to say, the top 20 largest staking node operators and asked why they havenâ€™t migrated yet? 

In theory, 0x02 is already incentivized through the slightly higher APR, right? So there is likely a different reason why they havenâ€™t migrated yet.
00:52:08	Francesco:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Which higher APR?
00:52:19	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

0x02 have a lower APR than 0x01. Thatâ€™s the issue
00:52:40	Luca | Vero:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Based on this I was under the impression they could have higher APR - https://www.attestant.io/posts/exploring-validator-compounding/
00:52:43	nixo:	Replying to "is this something th..."

i think the math works out but iâ€™m just not sure how much professional operators are factoring it into their decisions above engineering costs of switching. not sure this is impactful enough to effect real changes in adoption and i think the overall appetite for maxeb changes will be low and as we tweak more, so should consider very impactful changes
00:53:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we historically have failed to properly prioritize features if they didnâ€™t need a hard fork EIP.

we should not repeat this mistake. these peerdas improvements should be high priority.
00:53:56	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

Yeah I think this is why we are covering now
00:54:01	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Yeah I think this is..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:08	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

And IMO should certainly be part of the calculus for thinking about scoping
00:54:15	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

We want to leave bandwidth to ALSO do this stuff
00:54:32	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

R&D bandwidth
00:54:38	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

Not the network resource ğŸ™‚ (but also that)
00:54:54	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "we historically have..."

but then we should maybe agree on timelines for this? like I think this should be live together with or before glamsterdam
00:54:59	Csaba:	Reacted to "Not the network reso..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:55:13	Luca | Vero:	Replying to "is this something th..."

StakeWise only recently allowed 0x02 validators on their platform and Lido is expected in H1 2026 IIRC.
That explains a part of the low adoption, but far from all of it.
00:55:16	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

The intention is before
00:55:23	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "The intention is b..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:25	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

I can jam w/ raul to make a concrete timeline
00:55:28	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

For next ACDC
00:55:28	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Yeah I think this is..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:30	Csaba:	Replying to "we historically have..."

I agree, we should do some of these before Glamsterdam, as part of the second phase of BPOs
00:55:44	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "The intention is bef..." with ğŸ”¥
00:55:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "we historically have..."

ah, then maybe good to clarify those timeline expectations (or I might have missed that part)
00:55:51	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

If you earn more rewards for a 0x01 than a 0x02, we can make it very comfy to switch and many will still decide to not switch. A 0x02 at 2048 is neutral but all balances below that see a lower yield . So a 0x02 at 34 ETH for example earn 2.3% less in yield than a  0x01 and also doesnâ€™t get free withdrawals. This is an issue.
00:56:01	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

Proposal here on the slide now
00:56:02	Chris:	Replying to "is this something ..."

I think there have been delays in implementation in the overall chain, e.g. it's not just the staking operators that have to implement, but partners on custodian sides etc. 

From what I've seen consolidation is highly desireable.
00:56:14	nixo:	Reacted to "If you earn more rew..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:24	nixo:	Reacted to "I think there have b..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "we historically have..."

right, I see. so this needs to be live in feb, so live on testnets in jan?
00:57:00	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

Something like that
00:57:04	stokes:	Replying to "we historically have..."

I think hereâ€™s your timeline
00:57:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "we historically have..."

ah, nice
00:57:54	Csaba:	Replying to "we historically have..."

Most of these networking changes can be rolled out gradually, even with not all clients having support.
01:00:27	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

@Luca | Vero That article assumes any withdrawn capital must sit idle. We should instead assume withdrawn capital earns equal return on investment as any other capital (however it may be used)
01:01:08	RaÃºl Kripalani:	- https://ethresear.ch/t/gossipsubs-partial-messages-extension-and-cell-level-dissemination/23017 
- https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4558 
- https://github.com/libp2p/specs/pull/685

- https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10650
01:01:21	RaÃºl Kripalani:	SCALE THE BLOBZZZZZ
01:02:13	lightclient:	Do CLs feel good about another 3 BPOs while finishing glamsterdam?
01:02:18	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Will partial message extension be merged in libp2p at some point? Any pushback?
01:02:47	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Will partial message..."

yep, the extensions framework is part of the libp2p specs now
01:02:56	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Will partial message..."

and this is the first extension built on top of that wireframew
01:03:01	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "SCALE THE BLOBZZZZZ" with ğŸ™Œ
01:03:03	Francesco:	Replying to "is this something th..."

If you assumed that 0x02 has free withdrawals whenever they want, could they not just withdraw at the same as the sweep would and get the same benefits?
01:03:05	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Will partial message..."

https://github.com/libp2p/specs/pull/685
01:03:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

right, as alex is saying, this should be considered as a priority within glamsterdam, and taken into consideration for scoping
01:03:22	Francesco:	Replying to "is this something th..."

(Of course withdrawals arenâ€™t free, but the other EIP does do something to fix this imbalance)
01:03:25	lightclient:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

I would like to hear from the actual CL teams
01:03:32	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "Will partial message..."

So temp from the spec team is good
01:03:34	lightclient:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

They donâ€™t need to be shy
01:03:41	Csaba:	Reacted to "SCALE THE BLOBZZZZZ" with ğŸ™Œ
01:03:42	Matt B:	Reacted to "SCALE THE BLOBZZZZZ" with ğŸ™Œ
01:03:47	lightclient:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

...
01:03:49	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Yes but then they would not be compounding. It would be nice to be able to compound rewards without having to have a lower yield. It is great UX
01:03:51	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..." 

 Do we see blob useage actually reaching the BPO targets?
01:03:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

isnâ€™t that part of the proposal to express fork preferences in a written form?
01:03:52	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

I think we'll be fine
01:03:54	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Will partial message..."

(the spec is Ethereum-agnostic)
01:03:59	lightclient:	Reacted to "I think we'll be fin..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:59	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "I think we'll be f..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I think we'll be fin..." with ğŸ”¥
01:04:12	RaÃºl Kripalani:	yeah, sorry if that was a lot, we're very enthusiastic about this change ğŸ˜„
01:04:19	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "yeah, sorry if that ..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:24	Barnabas:	Replying to "is this something thâ€¦"
could we have execution rewards be automatically added to the validators balance?
01:04:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "yeah, sorry if that ..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:47	Barnabas:	Replying to "is this something thâ€¦"
skipping the EL completely making it free, and further pushing 0x02?
01:04:48	Francesco:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

@Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind scaling blobs isnâ€™t just about meeting current usage needs, itâ€™s also about enabling new users that wouldnâ€™t use Ethereum DA without seeing a credible path to sufficient scale
01:04:57	Trent:	Reacted to "@Ahmad Bitar | Nethe..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:12	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "is this something th..." 

 Tht would be very complicated
01:05:13	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "yeah, sorry if that ..."

off topic, but I liked the slide style ğŸ˜„
01:05:14	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "Will partial message..."

Ye ye thatâ€™s why I was asking
01:05:14	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Or actually, as the hysteresis operates right now, they can never just stop compounding at some point and have the same yield as 0x01. But as mentioned in the EIP, they can game the hysteresis by withdrawing down to a balance of 32.75 ETH (or 33.75 ETH, etc)
01:05:24	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to @Ahmad Bitar | Nethe... with "ğŸ‘"
01:05:30	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Ye ye thatâ€™s why I w..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:32	Luca | Vero:	Replying to "is this something th..."

I need a bit of time to read and understand your proposed changes, Anders, but I think the real point here is: we should talk to the largest staking providers to find out why they havenâ€™t consolidated yet.

It may not be a question of incentives and therefore making any further incentive changes might be a waste of time if the goal is more consolidations.
01:05:41	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

If they game the hysteresis, they earn outsizes rewards
01:05:44	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "off topic, but I l..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:09	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "off topic, but I lik..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
01:06:30	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "off topic, but I lik..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:40	lightclient:	Reacted to "off topic, but I lik..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:58	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

@Luca | Vero We can from a first-principle approach assume that someone wants a higher yield on their capital, ceteris paribus. (Regardless what they say about it)
01:07:50	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Do CLs feel good abo..."

btw, the networking team can work hand in hand with client teams to help implement the gossipsub-level changes
01:08:11	Francesco:	Reacted to "btw, the networking ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:08:30	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

I donâ€™t mind involving SSPs in the conversation however of course. But this EIP is focused quite a bit on home stakers that would stake say 64 or 128. They suffer the most from the current EB calculation.
01:08:38	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "btw, the networking ..." with ğŸ™
01:08:38	felipe:	Reacted to "yeah, sorry if tha..." with â¤ï¸
01:08:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	FOCIL is clearly on the roadmap and people agree on its importance but we shouldn't put it on top of ePBS. Both EIPs are complex by themselves and ePBS itself will be a big-enough feature already.
FOCIL in H*. Won't be more difficult.
01:09:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I am worried about FOCIL impact on Glamsterdam timelines, but the argument that there is a risk censorship resistance will become more controversial over time is also valid. hard tradeoff to make.
01:09:29	Luca | Vero:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t mind involvi..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:42	felipe:	Reacted to "btw, the networkin..." with ğŸ”¥
01:10:05	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "FOCIL is clearly on ..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:07	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:09	soispoke:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:10	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:26	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:32	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:40	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:41	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:49	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I am worried about F..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:51	NC:	Replying to "FOCIL is clearly on â€¦"
Probably need different parties to chime in and gauge the complexity and feasibility to ship epbs and focil together
01:10:53	Luca | Vero:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Well, the large SSPs are going to have the largest impact numbers-wise, thatâ€™s why I suggested talking to them and understanding what their current blockers are.
01:10:54	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "They donâ€™t need to b..." with ğŸ¥
01:11:09	soispoke:	Reacted to "Probably need differ..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:36	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1772#issuecomment-3464636124
01:11:42	Francesco:	Reacted to "Well, the large SSPs..." with ğŸ’¯
01:12:32	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

I see no issue with that ğŸ‘ Still we should make sure that a home staker at 40 ETH can use a compounding 0x02 without getting 2.3% lower yields than an SSP. 8068 addresses this, and a number of other things
01:12:53	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	There's 1 person that understand both + their interaction. If we're generous, then it's a handful of people. There will be unknown unknowns, just by the nature of being big interacting features.
01:13:07	Francesco:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Well tbh Iâ€™d care much less about that vs a staker with 500 ETH. Itâ€™s not a huge deal if the few 1000s of home stakers stay with 0x01
01:13:10	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Probably need differ..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:19	RaÃºl Kripalani:	link to my slides: https://github.com/raulk/research/blob/main/eth/talks/251030-acdc-peerdas-cell-deltas.md
01:14:10	stokes:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/h-star-name-for-consensus-layer-upgrade-after-glamsterdam/24298#p-59191-poll-2
01:14:38	Justin Traglia:	Works for me
01:14:43	kingy_sigp:	heka good
01:14:43	Trent:	Shorter better
01:14:45	nixo:	Reacted to "Works for me" with ğŸ‘
01:14:53	Barnabas:	Hegota
01:14:54	Will Corcoran:	Heka yes
01:14:59	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Heka yes" with ğŸ‘
01:14:59	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "heka good" with ğŸ˜„
01:15:02	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Heka yes" with ğŸ˜„
01:15:02	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Heka yes" with ğŸ‘
01:15:04	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Heka!
01:15:04	nixo:	Replying to "Heka yes"

noooooooo
01:15:04	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Heka yes" with ğŸ˜
01:15:06	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Heka yes" with ğŸ˜„
01:15:08	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "is this something th..."

Ok. Well if youâ€™re at 500 ETH your hit isnâ€™t that big. Still youâ€™ll be earning slightly less than at 32. And we also have the â€œ32.75 ETH gaming hysteresisâ€ that I think we should address.
01:15:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Hogota ğŸ˜„
01:15:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Heka yes" with ğŸ‘
01:15:15	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Hekta heck of good!
01:15:16	Josh Davis:	Hekota
01:15:17	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Hegota" with ğŸ‘
01:15:19	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Hogota ğŸ˜„"

ho6ota
01:15:19	wolovim:	Reacted to "noooooooo" with ğŸ˜†
01:15:20	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Hekata
01:15:22	Phil Ngo:	Heka yes
01:15:26	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Hekota" with â•
01:15:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Bogeka :-)
01:15:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Hekota
01:15:35	nixo:	the californian in me is dying, y'all
01:15:38	Caleb:	Heka
01:15:39	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Bogeka :-)" with ğŸ™Œ
01:15:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "the californian in m..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:15:50	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Bogeka :-)" with ğŸ˜¬
01:16:00	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1772#issuecomment-3465739654
01:16:06	Trent:	Mascot is usually chosen at interops
01:16:07	nixo:	think it should depend on the features!
01:16:07	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Bogeka is pretty ğŸ”¥
01:16:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	like a real life mascot?
01:16:12	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Mascot is usually ch..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:14	nixo:	Reacted to "Mascot is usually ch..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	animal for ascii art
01:16:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "like a real life mas..."

I nominate dapplion
01:16:26	Yann Vonlanthen:	Reacted to "Hekta heck of good!" with â•
01:16:29	Josh Davis:	ğŸª©
01:16:31	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ‘
01:16:33	felipe:	hektÃ¡
01:16:34	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ‘
01:16:36	nixo:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:38	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:38	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:38	nixo:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ‘
01:16:38	nixo:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ‘
01:16:42	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:44	nflaig:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:48	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:49	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:16:53	Csaba:	Reacted to "I nominate dapplion" with ğŸ¦
01:17:01	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Mascot is usually ch..." with ğŸ‘
01:17:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "think it should depeâ€¦"
Something with epbs and bals?
01:17:29	wolovim:	Call to action for eip authors: polish your forkcast data for best presentation, asap :)
01:17:36	nixo:	Reacted to "Something with epbs ..." with âš¾
01:17:41	nixo:	Reacted to "Something with epbs ..." with ğŸ¥
01:17:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "hektÃ¡"

as long as that isnâ€™t a bad sign for it being a hectic fork
01:17:44	Barnabas:	Heck yeah
01:17:51	Justin Traglia:	Bye everyone!
