00:06:59	stokes:	gm
00:07:03	Mario Vega:	gm
00:07:07	felix (eest):	gm
00:07:20	Louis:	gn
00:07:28	Justin Florentine (Besu):	gâ€™eth
00:08:47	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	gn gn
00:09:33	Mario Vega:	https://hive.ethpandaops.io/#/?group=fusaka-devnet-0
00:12:29	Marius:	Is anyone speaking already?
00:12:35	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Is anyone speaking a..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:12:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Is anyone speaking a..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:12:48	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Is anyone speaking a..."

Yes we are
00:12:53	Barnabas:	Replying to "Is anyone speaking a..."

heâ€™s been sitting in quiet for 7 mins ğŸ˜‚
00:13:06	felix (eest):	Reacted to "heâ€™s been sitting..." with ğŸ˜­
00:13:34	Mikel Cortes:	Reacted to "heâ€™s been sitting in..." with ğŸ˜­
00:14:04	chanderprakash sharma:	Hi @ everyone I first join the meet any protocols I have to follow for call could please anyone help me
00:14:22	RaÃºl Kripalani:	ğŸ‘
00:15:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-devnet-1
00:16:13	chanderprakash sharma:	Replying to "Hi @ everyone I fi..."

could any please connect with me
00:16:18	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethpandaops/fusaka-devnets/blob/master/network-configs/devnet-0/metadata/config.yaml#L194
00:17:02	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Isnâ€™t https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7918  SFIâ€™d for fevnet-1?
00:17:22	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Isnâ€™t https://eips.e..."

afaik yes
00:17:26	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4323  included? Iâ€™d clarify
00:18:18	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..."

The list is missing eip-7918
00:18:27	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Isnâ€™t https://eips.e..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:28	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "afaik yes" with ğŸ‘
00:19:28	FLCL:	final option can be destructive like 50 blobs
00:19:50	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "final option can be ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:21:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	it would be fine for the EIP to be included as-is into any devnet now
00:22:02	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "it would be fine for..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:03	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "it would be fine for..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:22:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4323
00:22:39	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "it would be fine for..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:54	chanderprakash sharma:	@Tim Beiko I am new to this meet first time I already email to join the meetings could please reply to me what is procedure to join the call
00:26:17	Louis:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko I am new ..."

I think you could start by reviewing some EIPs included in upcoming devnet
00:26:22	Gajinder:	I am fine closing the PR given future usage plans
00:26:33	pawan:	Reacted to "I am fine closing th..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I am fine closing th..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:54	Gajinder:	Sounds good
00:27:49	J Sunnyside Labs:	Can Sunnyside Labs talk briefly about our testnet results?
00:27:56	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Can Sunnyside Labs t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:28:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Can Sunnyside Labs t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:28:37	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "Can Sunnyside Labs t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:29:02	J Sunnyside Labs:	https://testinprod.notion.site/Sunnyside-Devnet-Updates-05-20-1f88fc57f5468034a397d29017942763
00:29:02	chanderprakash sharma:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko I am ne..."

could please share them
00:30:12	Louis:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko I am new ..."

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7607
00:30:52	chanderprakash sharma:	Reacted to "https://eips.ether..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:35	Csaba Kiraly:	You donâ€™t really need getBlobs if all the block producers are powerful enough
00:32:56	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "You donâ€™t really nee..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
00:33:03	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "You donâ€™t really nee..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
00:33:12	Francesco:	Replying to "You donâ€™t really nee..."

Also with small network + very high bandwidth
00:33:23	Csaba Kiraly:	If uplink BW is not constrained, getBlobs is not adding too much, just a small potential delay advantage by adding more sources at the CL
00:33:32	Minhyuk Kim:	I think our further tests will include nodes with degraded bandwidth / performance and see how getBlobs affects in those cases
00:33:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think our further ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:33:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think our further ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:34:00	Marius:	Replying to "You donâ€™t really nee..." 

 Also you can't rely on getBlobs, the network needs to work flawlessly without it
00:34:07	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "I think our further ..."

Thatâ€™s what you need, otherwise you just test code efficiency and bugs.
00:34:22	Francesco:	Did you get a sense of what the problem was with supernodes? Specifically, is their really high resource consumption mostly due to column verification?
00:34:34	Marius:	Replying to "You donâ€™t really nee..." 

 Its a great improvement for the happy case
00:34:37	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "I think our further ..."

Which is also very important :-)
00:34:43	Francesco:	Reacted to "Which is also very i..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:42	pawan:	Reacted to "Which is also very i..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:12	Francesco:	No my bad
00:37:22	pawan:	Yeah sync testing would be super helpful! ğŸ™
00:37:24	Marius:	Can we try to create an el block with cell block txs
00:37:35	Minhyuk Kim:	Replying to "Did you get a sense ..."

In the past devnets (like a month ago), there were high consumption & time spent on those verifications which were due to bugs in certain clients; but those specific issues seem to be resolved now
00:37:35	Marius:	Make sure its rejected by the cls
00:38:22	Francesco:	Reacted to "In the past devnets ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:23	Francesco:	Replying to "Did you get a sense ..."

great
00:38:40	Minhyuk Kim:	Reacted to "great" with ğŸ˜ƒ
00:39:14	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we try to create..."

sounds like you volunteered
00:43:44	chanderprakash sharma:	could any one tell what is agenda current meeting ? and before discussion I what things I have to see ?
00:43:59	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1554
00:44:36	chanderprakash sharma:	Replying to "https://github.com..."

Thankyou
00:44:37	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Thanks all!
00:44:47	chanderprakash sharma:	Bye bYe
