00:03:04	read.ai meeting notes:	Lisandro and Teck Yuan added read.ai meeting notes to the meeting.

Read provides AI generated meeting summaries to make meetings more effective and efficient. View our Privacy Policy at https://www.read.ai/pp

Type "read stop" to disable, or "opt out" to delete meeting data.
00:03:39	Fireflies.ai Notetaker Alan:	Talk to Fireflies: (Web-search enabled)
‚Ä¢ Say: Hey Fireflies how can you help?
‚Ä¢ Type: /ff help
to get started.
View real-time notes and transcription for this meeting here: https://app.fireflies.ai/live/01JW6ZMHC7AQXS5426PNDX96X5?ref=live_chat
00:04:14	Joxes | Wonderland:	Gm!
00:04:20	Maurice | Anoma:	gmgm
00:04:42	dylandedi:	Gm!
00:05:07	Zodomo | Omni Network:	gm!
00:05:18	Daniel:	gm
00:05:31	John Church:	üëã
00:05:52	Riely Chen:	üëã
00:05:59	Ulyana Skladchikova:	üëã
00:07:13	frangio:	https://github.com/ethereum/L2-interop/blob/main/docs/message-passing/erc-7786-working-group.md
00:07:36	frangio:	https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/1050
00:09:44	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	And No security ;)
00:09:51	Aram Kocharyan:	Reacted to "And No security ;)" with üòÇ
00:09:57	Jim Chang:	Reacted to "And No security ;)" with üòÇ
00:09:58	Evan Chipman:	Reacted to "And No security ;)" with üòÇ
00:10:01	Tomoki Adachi | Futaba:	Reacted to "And No security ;)" with üòÇ
00:10:59	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	https://x.com/orestta/status/1925891565743988739?s=46&t=BsEBfMI4zdX0UF1nkoYYew
00:11:00	dylandedi:	You can see the agenda and link to al notes here https://www.notion.so/Interopolis-Community-Hub-1ea97cf6990c8067be50f9a8df597a47?pvs=18
00:11:01	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Ef
00:11:29	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "You can see the agen..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:11:32	Jim Chang:	Reacted to "You can see the agen..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:11:48	Ian Norden:	Is the venue for ZuBerlin known?
00:11:51	Chris Haug:	https://zuberlin.city
00:11:58	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Yes, warschauer str
00:12:01	Chris Haug:	Replying to "Is the venue for ZuB..."

can DM you reg that
00:12:02	Ian Norden:	Ty
00:12:10	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "Yes, warschauer str" with üëç
00:12:11	Ian Norden:	Replying to "Is the venue for ZuB..."

Yes please
00:13:10	John Church:	Oh awesome.
00:13:39	John Church:	Any recordings on solver economics?
00:14:01	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	No video but we have some audio and notes
00:14:06	John Church:	Reacted to "No video but we have..." with üëç
00:14:10	Ellie Davidson:	No official recording, but the transcript and notes from the session were linked by Dylan above!
00:14:22	John Church:	Reacted to "No official recordin..." with üëç
00:14:22	Ellie Davidson:	Reacted to "You can see the ag..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:14:26	John Church:	Replying to "No official recordin..."

Thank you!
00:14:29	Allan | Offchain Labs:	Very interested in solver exploration
00:14:41	Evan Chipman:	Reacted to "Very interested in s‚Ä¶" with ‚ûï
00:14:55	Ellie Davidson:	Reacted to "Very interested in..." with ‚ûï
00:17:08	Helena F:	Reacted to "You can see the agen..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:19:29	Kanishk | Across:	Reacted to "Very interested in..." with ‚ûï
00:21:58	Alexander:	https://github.com/openintentsframework/OIF
00:22:41	Marissa Posner:	Huge props to Josh for pushing all of this forward!
00:22:49	Gurnoor Narula:	Reacted to "Huge props to Josh f..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:22:52	iPhone:	Reacted to "https://github.com/o‚Ä¶" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:23:47	Tom Teman:	Reacted to "Huge props to Josh f..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:24:51	Ellie Davidson:	Reacted to "Huge props to Josh..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:25:25	dmarz:	Bullishhhhh
00:27:51	Jim Chang:	Reacted to "Huge props to Josh f..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:27:54	Jim Chang:	Reacted to "https://github.com/o..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:29:29	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Huge props to Josh f..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:30:25	Tom Teman:	Reacted to "Bullishhhhh" with üêÇ
00:30:52	Zodomo | Omni Network:	is there a repo for the interop wallet?
00:31:07	TiTi (Wonderland):	Yes, let me share it, one sec
00:31:36	Skele | Wonderland:	https://github.com/defi-wonderland/ambire-extension
00:31:42	TiTi (Wonderland):	Reacted to "https://github.com..." with üëç
00:31:48	Kanishk | Across:	Reacted to "https://github.com..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:31:49	Zodomo | Omni Network:	Reacted to "https://github.com/d..." with üëç
00:31:52	TiTi (Wonderland):	https://github.com/ethereum/wallet-poc
00:32:11	TiTi (Wonderland):	Replying to "https://github.com..."

we are working here and pushing the PRs to the ethereum repo. Still WIP
00:32:35	Mat Nisenson:	Reacted to "https://github.com/d..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:32:35	Kanishk | Across:	Reacted to "we are working her..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:32:38	Mat Nisenson:	Reacted to "https://github.com/d..." with üëç
00:34:35	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "https://github.com/d..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:34:45	TiTi (Wonderland):	https://defi-wonderland.notion.site/Interoperable-Addresses-Wallet-2019a4c092c780d09070fc06a1043303
00:34:47	Kanishk | Across:	Replying to "https://github.com..."

thank you so much for setting this up!. if possible, could you open issues for incoming changes ? would help contributors to collaborate and learn more on the direction for the poc.
00:34:56	Kanishk | Across:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonde..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:35:08	Oscar M | Ledger:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonderl..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:35:40	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Huge props to Josh f..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:36:11	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:36:47	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "https://x.com/orestt..." with üòç
00:36:48	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "You can see the agen..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:37:06	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "https://github.com/o..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:39:11	frangio:	l2.eth sounds great!
00:39:13	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Bullishhhhh" with üêÇ
00:39:17	Skele | Wonderland:	Reacted to "l2.eth sounds grea..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:39:25	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "l2.eth sounds great!" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:39:46	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "thank you so much fo..." with üíØ
00:41:38	TiTi (Wonderland):	Reacted to "l2.eth sounds grea..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:41:43	Skele | Wonderland:	also, the main purpose of the new /chains list, is to have "prettier" names for chains, which would serve as the initial values when migration to the `l2.eth` resolver happens
00:45:05	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "l2.eth sounds great!" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:46:57	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "also, the main purpo..." with üëç
00:46:59	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonderl..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:08	Zodomo | Omni Network:	@Vaibhav Chellani where can we contact you on other platforms
00:53:08	Allan | Offchain Labs:	Love this - very cool
00:53:10	Nam:	v cool
00:53:21	Tomoki Adachi | Futaba:	cool
00:53:22	Vaibhav Chellani:	Vaibhavchellani on TG
00:53:25	Zodomo | Omni Network:	Reacted to "Vaibhavchellani on T..." with üëç
00:53:41	Zodomo | Omni Network:	thanks all!
