00:14:56	nixo:	gm
00:15:01	Louis:	gm
00:15:26	spencer-tb:	/gm
00:17:01	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1865
00:19:32	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/beacon-metrics/pull/21
00:22:13	Barnabas:	https://dune.com/queries/3757544/6319515
00:22:22	Åukasz Rozmej:	Should we wait with BPO3 until the demand increases?
00:22:33	Matthew Keil:	Yes, I think its prudent
00:22:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	what do we do if it starts hitting target but its all spam?
00:23:12	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

Is it our role to judge what is spam or not?
00:23:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

i'm honestly not sure
00:23:53	Justin Traglia:	What target/max numbers are we going to push for? 24/32?
00:24:02	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

so I think the answer is generally no, but yes on the edges - so I think it depends how the fees look
00:24:11	Barnabas:	Replying to "What target/max numb..."

TBD
00:24:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

but i think we're getting to the point that agreeing to increase it might be that judgement
00:24:35	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "What target/max numb..."

Yeah I was just curious. Makes sense.
00:25:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

i think fees is a good enough answer for me
00:28:13	Stefan Starflinger:	Reth holiday also afaik
00:28:21	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Reth holiday also af..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:28:41	Potuz:	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

Itâ€™ s a tricky situation. To be the Devilâ€™s advocate why should main net validators be stressed by lowering the blob gas price just to get spam. This is something that should be really dealt with at the L2 level, if L2s start pumping the gas limit to the point that only one operator in the world can run their nodes, they could easily take all of L1â€™s blob space. 

I donâ€™t advocate for us making a decision on whatâ€™s spam and whatâ€™ s not, but there should be a push back against L2s needlessly becoming BSC.
00:28:47	Potuz:	Replying to "what do we do if it ..."

On the back of L1 validators.
00:30:10	Justin Traglia:	Releases:
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/releases/tag/v1.7.0-alpha.0
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/releases/tag/v1.7.0-alpha.1
New withdrawals discussion:
https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1460267494026510420/1460267497495466097
Open PRs that need to be reviewed:
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4792 
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4817
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4772 
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4826
00:31:02	Barnabas:	We should aim for alpha 1 release for the devnet, otherwise everyone will have to implement a broken phase 0 changes.
00:31:56	Potuz:	Are we making technical discussions/decisions in this call or will we have a breakout?
00:32:01	Potuz:	jinx
00:32:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "Are we making techni..."

this is the place imo
00:33:21	Potuz:	Reacted to "this is the place im..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:33	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "i think fees is a go..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:48	Barnabas:	sgtm, I just wanna avoid having too different behaviour between clients
00:38:27	Potuz:	Yeah if we go that route we need to specify that
00:38:30	Potuz:	Cause that affects scores
00:38:49	Barnabas:	how big is a bid ?
00:42:33	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "how big is a bid ?"

~328 bytes
00:44:36	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Not yet ğŸ™‚
00:44:57	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Not yet ğŸ™‚" with ğŸ‘
00:45:13	NC:	This doesnâ€™t need to be included for devnet 0 does it?
00:45:37	Barnabas:	Replying to "This doesnâ€™t need to..."

no
00:45:53	Barnabas:	Replying to "This doesnâ€™t need to..."

alpha 1 is the new target for devnet 0
00:46:25	Barnabas:	Replying to "This doesnâ€™t need to..."

if we agree to include this down the road it can become the scope of a future devnet
00:47:26	Potuz:	I think weâ€™ll end up having to have a breakout anyway this call is probably not good enough to discuss technical details like these
00:47:33	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think weâ€™ll end up..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:47:59	Justin Traglia:	For the next one, we should discuss it on discord.
00:48:10	Potuz:	We did for most of them
00:52:38	Marius van der Wijden:	But isn't that just a ci problem?
00:54:29	Marius van der Wijden:	So you want to merge the epbs stuff directly into master?
00:54:59	Barnabas:	prysm already does
00:55:19	Potuz:	Replying to "So you want to merge..."

Yes, we want to be merging into our develop branch
00:55:32	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "So you want to merge..." 

 This is not a very pipeline-able approach
00:55:50	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20milestone%3Aamsterdam
00:56:06	Potuz:	Replying to "So you want to merge..."

We already have prototyped this before and itâ€™s really the only way of getting production code out there. Teku and Nimbus are doing the same
00:56:08	Potuz:	Replying to "So you want to merge..."

Not sure about LH
00:57:00	Mario Vega:	7778, 7708, 7843, 8024
00:57:16	Barnabas:	Are these EL only changes?
00:57:43	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "So you want to merge..." 

 What we usually do is build it on a separate branch and then upstream it in chunks to the mainline. Thus we can enable the new tests on the branch and the old tests on master and we switch over once everything is in master
00:58:00	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "So you want to merge..." 

 And we continuously rebase the fork
00:58:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	we have SLOTNUM: https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/pull/7981
00:58:57	Åukasz Rozmej:	but looks stale, need to update it
00:59:29	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we have SLOTNUM: htt..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:00:03	felipe:	Reacted to "we have SLOTNUM: h..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:00:28	Marius van der Wijden:	The eth transfer one is the most complex should be tackled first
01:00:45	Barnabas:	ETA on impl these  ?
01:02:07	Barnabas:	lets aim for jan 21 for devnet 2
01:02:33	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "lets aim for jan 21 ..." with â¤ï¸
01:02:36	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "lets aim for jan 21 ..." with â¤ï¸
01:02:46	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "lets aim for jan 21 â€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:02:52	felipe:	Reacted to "lets aim for jan 2..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:00	Marius van der Wijden:	Can you post in the acd channel the four eips that should be implemented first
01:03:11	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Can you post in the ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:03:50	Marius van der Wijden:	I don't think going to 75m or any gas increase right now is important
01:04:06	Marius van der Wijden:	We should focus on repricings imho
01:04:12	Marius van der Wijden:	And eth70
01:06:06	Potuz:	@Kamil ChodoÅ‚a whatâ€™s the difference in execution+broadcast time from 60 to 75 on the same node youâ€™re measuring?
01:06:13	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/710
01:07:20	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "@Kamil ChodoÅ‚a wh..."

Benchmarks for now are only execution focused and we test on 100 Mgas blocks.

We convert the data captured into MGas/s and make assumptions based on that
01:08:50	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/650
01:13:53	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/650 
https://github.com/simsonraj/eth-err-tests/blob/master/reports/geth-local.log.csv
01:14:24	Justin Traglia:	Bye everyone
01:14:30	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	thank you everyone
