00:07:51	Christine Kim:	gm
00:08:01	Justin Florentine (Besu):	gm
00:08:07	Louis:	gn
00:08:11	nixo:	gm
00:08:19	felix (eest):	gm
00:08:22	stokes:	gm
00:08:23	nixo:	Reacted to "gn" with ğŸŒ™
00:08:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	does anyone recall how long the non-finality period we tested on devnet 3 was? Am i remembering 3 days correctly?
00:09:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "does anyone recall h..."

Which time? The most recent was 2d ish
00:09:28	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "does anyone recall h..."

good enuff, thx
00:09:42	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:10:19	Antoine James:	gm
00:11:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/595701053161209866/1424390337954185298
00:12:34	Barnabas:	11h45min till BPO 1
00:12:38	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:12:42	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with â²ï¸
00:12:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with â²ï¸
00:12:50	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with â²ï¸
00:12:54	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "https://discord.com/..."

Release is out: https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/releases/tag/1.34.1
00:12:58	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "https://discord.com/..."

needs resync
00:13:22	lightclient:	Did someone figure out why head/target votes went from 95%+ to ~75%?
00:13:28	Antoine James:	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with â²ï¸
00:13:33	felix (eest):	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with â²ï¸
00:13:51	J Sunnyside Labs:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1423741917769891891
00:14:19	pawan:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1423741917769891891
00:14:19	Barnabas:	Replying to "Did someone figure o..."

Iâ€™d assume underpowered supernodes
00:14:42	Barnabas:	Replying to "Did someone figure o..."

Its very likely that people are over-provisioning machines for holesky to leave the costs low
00:14:59	Barnabas:	Replying to "Did someone figure o..."

Duties of supernodes have increased compared to pectra duties
00:17:55	Barnabas:	Iâ€™d have assumed that all client switch at the fork boundry
00:17:55	James He:	I think we used at the fork but will double check
00:18:06	nflaig:	we switch at fork boundary
00:18:13	Barnabas:	What does lh do?
00:19:25	Barnabas:	We donâ€™t have a working relay/builder on holesky now
00:19:33	Barnabas:	We expect them to be working on sepolia/hoodi tho
00:19:51	pawan:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/892088344438255616/1423587130323632268 

This is what Bharath replied to jimmyâ€™s question
00:20:03	Barnabas:	Also reminder, holesky is officially EOL end of this month!
00:20:45	Barnabas:	We have recovered.
00:20:47	Barnabas:	Sorry canâ€™t really talk
00:21:24	Barnabas:	We noticed that some nodes have ran out of disk again :/
00:21:40	Barnabas:	so we need a round of maintenance
00:21:47	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://lab.ethpandaops.io/experiments
00:21:52	Fredrik:	Reacted to "11h45min till BPO 1" with â²ï¸
00:21:57	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://lab.ethpanda..." with ğŸ”¥
00:22:07	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://lab.ethpanda..." with ğŸ”¥
00:22:34	Justin Traglia:	Will the blob spammer automatically use the newer blob limit?
00:23:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Weâ€™ll modify it for the newer biob limits
00:23:15	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ll modify it for ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:47	Marius van der Wijden:	Yep already on the efuzzing from our side
00:24:01	CPerezz:	@jochem-brouwer ?
00:25:00	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Yep already on the e..." with ğŸ™
00:25:14	Antoine James:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ll modify it f..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/691
00:28:21	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://pokebal.raxhvl.com/
00:28:34	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-0
00:29:29	Barnabas:	Can we please get  bal-devnet-0  branches that are living on the main repo?
00:29:45	Barnabas:	would significnatly reduce mental load on finding the correct branch names all the time.
00:29:47	Åukasz Rozmej:	@Marc can help with it
00:30:36	Jen:	Reacted to "Can we please get  b..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:40	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Can we please get  b..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:44	felipe:	Reacted to "@Marc can help wit..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we please get  b..."

same rule for epbs-devnet-0 btw
00:32:10	felipe:	Reacted to "https://pokebal.ra..." with ğŸ’¯
00:32:17	Justin Traglia:	ePBS breakout call agenda: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1744
00:33:18	Barnabas:	beta0 for devnet 0?
00:33:27	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "beta0 for devnet 0?"

yes
00:33:30	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-0
00:33:30	Barnabas:	Reacted to "yes" with ğŸ‘
00:33:33	Mario Vega:	After payments decision on Friday, will there be more spec updates?
00:34:04	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "After payments decis..."

Maybe ğŸ˜„
00:34:11	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Maybe ğŸ˜„" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:34:32	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://ethresear.ch/t/ethereum-needs-standards-punk/23151
00:34:44	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://ethresear.ch..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:34:48	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "https://ethresear...." met ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:34:54	felix (eest):	Reacted to "https://ethresear...." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:35:22	Mario Vega:	Replying to "https://ethresear.ch..."

Really liked the post, I think we should coordinate to improve the current situation
00:35:30	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Really liked the p..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Really liked the pos..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:50	James He:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1424763176008024095/1424764404947222630
00:35:56	felix (eest):	Replying to "https://ethresear...."

yeah i saw this post on X and followed him, we can get some high quality feedback and ideas from him
00:36:53	Barnabas:	Its in their critical path to implement it.
00:37:13	Barnabas:	If they wonâ€™t implement it, clients should fall back to using another relay no?
00:37:29	pawan:	No we have already signed the block by that point
00:37:35	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "No we have already s..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:10	pawan:	Can we just check with all clients how they implement it? We can switch to the common behaviour if required too just to be consistent
