WEBVTT

1
00:12:43.180 --> 00:12:44.060
Mario Vega: Hello?

2
00:12:52.580 --> 00:12:53.710
spencer-tb: Hey, how's it going?

3
00:12:56.060 --> 00:12:57.269
Mario Vega: Hey, not bad.

4
00:12:57.370 --> 00:12:58.440
Mario Vega: Good on you.

5
00:13:00.940 --> 00:13:04.130
spencer-tb: I just have a fresh match in front of me, so I'm very happy.

6
00:13:07.960 --> 00:13:08.710
Mario Vega: Nice.

7
00:15:04.600 --> 00:15:08.969
Mario Vega: Hi everyone, we'll just give a couple of minutes before starting, and… yep.

8
00:16:36.690 --> 00:16:38.110
Mario Vega: I think we can start.

9
00:16:40.950 --> 00:16:42.229
Akash | ECH: Alright, to be alive.

10
00:16:43.130 --> 00:16:44.220
Mario Vega: Perfect, thank you.

11
00:16:44.650 --> 00:16:57.920
Mario Vega: Alright, welcome everyone to ACDT number 65. Today is January 12th, and this is the first ACDT on the… of the year, so Happy New Year, everyone.

12
00:16:58.110 --> 00:17:04.000
Mario Vega: And I want to share the agenda really quickly on the chat. Yeah.

13
00:17:04.210 --> 00:17:14.760
Mario Vega: Alright, so I'll just get started. So, the first item in the agenda is the mainnet BPO that happened last week. I don't think there were any

14
00:17:14.960 --> 00:17:17.930
Mario Vega: Issues, or…

15
00:17:18.150 --> 00:17:29.499
Mario Vega: event… events that happened, but I just wanted to bring this up and see if anyone has anything, any comments regarding the BPO that happened last week in Maynet.

16
00:17:32.980 --> 00:17:37.419
Mario Vega: Barnabas, I don't know, I see you online, I don't know if you want to share anything, or.

17
00:17:37.420 --> 00:17:45.079
Barnabas: everything pretty much went as expected. I think we are good to go with, testing BPO string numbers.

18
00:17:45.480 --> 00:17:50.880
Barnabas: But I think that's the next topic. Regarding BPO2, everything looks good now.

19
00:17:53.730 --> 00:17:57.309
Mario Vega: Thanks. Anything from the clients that,

20
00:17:57.520 --> 00:18:00.749
Mario Vega: Wants to be shared on this… On this call?

21
00:18:12.690 --> 00:18:23.310
Mario Vega: Yep. Okay, so yeah, congrats everyone on this successful BPO2. I think we can just move on to BPO3. Do you want to…

22
00:18:23.640 --> 00:18:27.430
Mario Vega: Start the discussion, Paramas, about, BP3.

23
00:18:27.970 --> 00:18:34.780
Barnabas: Yeah, so BPO3, is gonna require us to basically implement,

24
00:18:34.880 --> 00:18:53.069
Barnabas: GetBlobv V3, and partial cell messages on the CL side. This is something that we have work in progress. All the ELs have a Get BlobV3, implemented already in their trunk branches, and that is what we're gonna be using to test the partial messages on the CL side.

25
00:18:53.160 --> 00:19:02.700
Barnabas: We currently have Lighthouse and Prism interoping on a local critical setup, but we are expecting to launch a DevNet

26
00:19:03.000 --> 00:19:06.049
Barnabas: Where we can, test this, publicly.

27
00:19:08.240 --> 00:19:20.529
Barnabas: We also have a few more metrics that we want to include regarding the Get BlockV3 metrics. We have a PR for that, and the Beacon metrics report.

28
00:19:22.820 --> 00:19:23.820
Barnabas: Interested up.

29
00:19:33.850 --> 00:19:44.489
Barnabas: So, once this is added, then we can actually start the DevNet, because there's no point of running the DevNet without, being able to verify that things are working.

30
00:19:45.060 --> 00:19:49.820
Barnabas: If you have additional ideas, what kind of metrics you would like to see,

31
00:19:49.980 --> 00:19:54.090
Barnabas: Maybe just comment to this PR, and

32
00:19:54.490 --> 00:19:56.800
Barnabas: Let's see if we can add that as well.

33
00:20:00.260 --> 00:20:00.890
Mario Vega: Sounds good.

34
00:20:00.890 --> 00:20:15.349
Barnabas: that's about it. Regarding timelines, I'm not sure if we can already discuss that. I think we should go through the whole process of testing it and making sure everything is working before we can discuss specific timelines.

35
00:20:19.450 --> 00:20:23.910
Mario Vega: For sure. Anything that you need from the clients at this point?

36
00:20:24.310 --> 00:20:26.750
Mario Vega: Other than input?

37
00:20:27.570 --> 00:20:40.189
Barnabas: Yeah, they need to implement the partial messages on the CR side, which is quite a big change. And also adding volumetrics that is listed on this PR.

38
00:20:44.830 --> 00:20:49.979
Mario Vega: Okay, so just to recap, Lighthouse, and what's the other client that has already implemented this?

39
00:20:50.260 --> 00:20:51.080
Barnabas: Prism.

40
00:20:51.490 --> 00:20:57.070
Mario Vega: Awesome, okay, alright, so yeah, for the rest of the clients,

41
00:20:57.260 --> 00:21:03.140
Mario Vega: please, reach out. Where are we coordinating this? Is R&D Discord, or…

42
00:21:03.320 --> 00:21:04.440
Mario Vega: Anywhere else?

43
00:21:05.910 --> 00:21:08.230
Barnabas: I'll roll me the Telegram group.

44
00:21:08.410 --> 00:21:20.160
Barnabas: for some reason, it's in a random telegram group in Southern R&D. But yeah, you can reach out to me, or to Raul, from the P2P team, and

45
00:21:20.870 --> 00:21:24.279
Barnabas: Yeah, if you're not included in the integral group, then we can add you.

46
00:21:25.820 --> 00:21:27.350
Mario Vega: Sounds good. Okay.

47
00:21:27.560 --> 00:21:28.870
Mario Vega: Yes, okay.

48
00:21:29.300 --> 00:21:32.290
Mario Vega: Thanks, thanks for this input.

49
00:21:33.350 --> 00:21:39.300
Mario Vega: Any comments on the client… from the client teams, regarding BP03? Is everything clear?

50
00:21:39.910 --> 00:21:41.510
Mario Vega: Regarding the next steps…

51
00:21:44.880 --> 00:21:46.729
Mario Vega: Any blockers, or…

52
00:21:46.990 --> 00:21:49.119
Mario Vega: General comments about… about it?

53
00:21:52.280 --> 00:21:55.440
Barnabas: I personally don't think it's super urgent, by the way.

54
00:21:55.670 --> 00:21:56.380
Barnabas: Dude.

55
00:21:56.660 --> 00:21:59.369
Mario Vega: for BP03. Okay.

56
00:21:59.370 --> 00:22:02.070
Barnabas: Yeah, our blob usage is,

57
00:22:02.510 --> 00:22:06.850
Barnabas: Not… not even near target, so… I think that's time.

58
00:22:07.350 --> 00:22:18.550
Mario Vega: Perfect. Okay, that's good, sounds reasonable. Alright. Yeah, just to recap, if anyone needs help with PPO3, although not urgent, please reach out to Barnabas, and…

59
00:22:18.650 --> 00:22:20.859
Mario Vega: And he can help you out to do coordinate.

60
00:22:21.190 --> 00:22:22.570
Mario Vega: Alright.

61
00:22:23.290 --> 00:22:24.100
Mario Vega: Cool.

62
00:22:26.660 --> 00:22:37.560
Mario Vega: Just single comment, yeah, I think, from Lukash is if we want to wait for BPO3 until the demand increases, and yeah, I, I think this is, this is general.

63
00:22:37.850 --> 00:22:40.240
Mario Vega: sentiment, from what I can see.

64
00:22:42.080 --> 00:22:54.990
Barnabas: Yeah, so I don't think we need to, like, wait. If this is ready and good to be rolled out, then I think we should just roll it out, because it's a significantly more, efficient algorithm.

65
00:22:55.130 --> 00:23:04.140
Barnabas: Using the partial cell request. So, like, it would help, basically reduce the bandwidth requirement for every single node operator on the network.

66
00:23:04.290 --> 00:23:05.350
Barnabas: So…

67
00:23:05.880 --> 00:23:11.310
Barnabas: We need proper testing. Once the testing is done, then we should just roll it out, whether or not,

68
00:23:12.420 --> 00:23:19.660
Barnabas: we wait for BPO3, yeah, I'm not sure if we need to further increase the BPO number,

69
00:23:21.170 --> 00:23:24.169
Barnabas: I, I think we can discuss that in Aqua Apps.

70
00:23:24.900 --> 00:23:26.580
Barnabas: Maybe next week, or…

71
00:23:26.780 --> 00:23:28.350
Barnabas: Maybe even two weeks from now.

72
00:23:31.020 --> 00:23:32.000
Mario Vega: Yeah, Matthew?

73
00:23:32.780 --> 00:23:44.329
Matthew Keil: The partial messages is a pretty big spec change, or at least implementation change, and I think we should see how that works on mainnet with mainnet traffic before we start to increase the blob.

74
00:23:44.440 --> 00:23:48.659
Matthew Keil: Traffic, just to make sure that there's no edge cases that come up.

75
00:23:49.170 --> 00:23:50.959
Matthew Keil: When we do actually hit mainnet.

76
00:24:00.750 --> 00:24:11.539
Mario Vega: Yeah, to answer Justin's comment, I don't think there's a decision yet. Is this more of, like, a general question, or… I don't think we have numbers, if that's…

77
00:24:12.420 --> 00:24:14.449
Mario Vega: Yeah, it's too excited. Okay.

78
00:24:17.000 --> 00:24:33.979
Barnabas: Yeah, I think there's a business, we can figure out the PPO numbers, but it's… it hasn't been super urgent, and yeah, we need to have the implementation statistically working 100% of the time, and then we can start looking into which numbers would make sense.

79
00:24:37.960 --> 00:24:51.210
Matthew Keil: Seems like a very prudent, prudent approach, is just make sure that the code that's going to be running has gotten some mainnet flexing of tests, you know, just to make sure it's good, and then the BPU number can probably go way up from there.

80
00:24:56.380 --> 00:24:58.040
Mario Vega: Alright. Makes sense.

81
00:24:58.190 --> 00:25:08.479
Mario Vega: All right, and we can continue this discussion on ACDC or ACDE this week or next, if clients have updates on the implementations.

82
00:25:09.170 --> 00:25:09.990
Mario Vega: Alright.

83
00:25:10.180 --> 00:25:24.700
Mario Vega: Good. Thanks. I think that's it for Fusaka, although, BPO3 can be considered maybe more of a lesserland topic at this point. But, yeah. Anyway, the next topic in the agenda is Glamsterzlam.

84
00:25:24.770 --> 00:25:36.619
Mario Vega: We're gonna start with, block-level access lists. I think there was an update, supposed to launch, be released this week for the tests.

85
00:25:36.740 --> 00:25:42.259
Mario Vega: Other than that, I don't have any more info. Do we have anyone in the…

86
00:25:42.820 --> 00:25:47.359
Mario Vega: In the call at the moment that has an update regarding block-level access list?

87
00:25:48.770 --> 00:25:52.469
Stefan Starflinger: I could give a quick, update on the definite one.

88
00:25:52.620 --> 00:25:56.150
Stefan Starflinger: But not on the testing, situation.

89
00:25:56.370 --> 00:26:13.770
Stefan Starflinger: Currently, Definite One is, has been running over the holidays pretty, pretty decently. There were a few incidents where I had to spend some time, getting it, fixed, especially regarding syncing, so a lot of clients have,

90
00:26:13.770 --> 00:26:27.759
Stefan Starflinger: released some patches regarding syncing up to the head, and that seems to be working pretty well. Only Reth hasn't had time yet to look into that, so most of the clients are working well. It would be nice if Reth could get up to speed here.

91
00:26:27.780 --> 00:26:32.500
Stefan Starflinger: And Erica and I think they're also looking into getting their client syncing.

92
00:26:32.660 --> 00:26:51.079
Stefan Starflinger: We're constantly spamming the network with EVM fuzzing and Uniswap transactions, but other than that, we also haven't expanded the testing too much yet. Beyond that, I've just been working a lot on getting all the tooling running smoothly.

93
00:26:56.710 --> 00:27:04.559
Mario Vega: Thank you. Any comments from anyone from Breath or Aragon? Do you guys have any blockers, or…

94
00:27:05.320 --> 00:27:07.860
Mario Vega: What's, what's the status?

95
00:27:10.740 --> 00:27:28.069
Andrew Ashikhmin: So, on Aragon's side, our developer, who was our primary developer who was working on block access lists, was on holiday, so I think he's back from today. I need to catch up with him, but we should resume our bell progress soon.

96
00:27:33.400 --> 00:27:34.460
Mario Vega: Thank you.

97
00:27:34.860 --> 00:27:38.120
Mario Vega: Anywhere from Reth.

98
00:27:38.740 --> 00:27:39.739
Mario Vega: on the call.

99
00:27:53.180 --> 00:28:00.170
Mario Vega: Alright, if not, I think we should reach out async to the team to see what's the status on that.

100
00:28:01.700 --> 00:28:08.739
Mario Vega: From the test side, I see Felipe on the call, do you want to chime in on the progress?

101
00:28:09.440 --> 00:28:11.030
felipe: Yeah, yeah,

102
00:28:11.390 --> 00:28:22.889
felipe: From the testing side, a few of the issues that we had on the DevNet were related to self-destruct, and there's a PR out to greatly increase the self-destruct test cases for bowels.

103
00:28:23.550 --> 00:28:26.769
felipe: And I'm just waiting on this last PR.

104
00:28:26.950 --> 00:28:28.100
felipe: have emerged.

105
00:28:28.360 --> 00:28:32.400
felipe: to… Make a release, for the…

106
00:28:32.750 --> 00:28:35.199
felipe: For the next test, bell tests.

107
00:28:35.740 --> 00:28:45.530
felipe: Also, this next test release is going to have all of the old Ethereum tests that we have filled for Amsterdam, so it's going to include quite a lot more tests,

108
00:28:45.760 --> 00:28:49.230
felipe: By its nature, it's just where we're gonna have all of those tests turned on.

109
00:28:49.410 --> 00:28:52.349
felipe: I've already ran this against some of the clients.

110
00:28:52.610 --> 00:28:58.769
felipe: that have, successful bowel implementations, that are passing all of the current tests.

111
00:28:59.390 --> 00:29:00.619
felipe: And it looks like…

112
00:29:01.030 --> 00:29:09.279
felipe: At least Nimbus passes all 39,000 tests, even with Ethereum tests turned on, so this is a good sign.

113
00:29:09.610 --> 00:29:11.629
felipe: But yeah, we're gonna have…

114
00:29:12.130 --> 00:29:18.080
felipe: significantly more tests in this next test release that I hope to get out, as soon as this PR is merged.

115
00:29:23.990 --> 00:29:26.689
Mario Vega: Great, thank you.

116
00:29:27.170 --> 00:29:39.949
Mario Vega: I also wanted to touch upon the topic of which EIPs should be included from Amsterdam in the next release after this one, but I will come back to that after EPVS.

117
00:29:41.510 --> 00:29:47.979
Mario Vega: Alright, but on block-level access, is there anything else that we want to discuss today regarding block-level access list?

118
00:29:55.240 --> 00:30:00.440
Mario Vega: Alright, if not, I think we can move into EPVS. Do we have anyone?

119
00:30:00.570 --> 00:30:07.339
Mario Vega: That can give us an update on, the status of the EPVS implementations.

120
00:30:07.710 --> 00:30:09.480
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I can. One second.

121
00:30:10.610 --> 00:30:14.600
Justin Traglia: I just posted a… or sorry, I just shared a comment in the chat.

122
00:30:14.900 --> 00:30:21.139
Justin Traglia: There have been two releases in 2026, primarily focused towards EPBS and COAS.

123
00:30:21.860 --> 00:30:31.720
Justin Traglia: Alpha… sorry, V1.7.0, alpha0 is the, spec for DevNet… for EPBS DevNet 0.

124
00:30:32.280 --> 00:30:38.309
Justin Traglia: There's a new Alpha.1 release, we can probably just bump the spec to that, doesn't really change anything.

125
00:30:38.980 --> 00:30:43.439
Justin Traglia: This includes a lot of the changes that we talked about and agreed to last year.

126
00:30:43.750 --> 00:30:54.960
Justin Traglia: Like, the big changes to builders, and some withdrawal refactoring, and stuff like that, and also proposer preferences, but that's not part of DevNet Zero.

127
00:30:56.420 --> 00:31:02.600
Justin Traglia: I believe client teams are just working on implementing, all of those changes.

128
00:31:03.430 --> 00:31:04.200
Justin Traglia: Yep.

129
00:31:06.970 --> 00:31:14.219
Justin Traglia: Barnabas says, we should aim for Alpha 1 release for the DevNet, otherwise everyone will have to implement a broken Phase 0 changes.

130
00:31:14.990 --> 00:31:24.439
Justin Traglia: Yeah, sure. And there's also, like, a new issue with, Alpha 1, actually. We probably should have implemented the withdrawals fix in Coloss.

131
00:31:25.970 --> 00:31:31.909
Justin Traglia: I opened a new discussion on that on Discord. That's the, I guess, the third link in my comment.

132
00:31:32.700 --> 00:31:34.880
Justin Traglia: Let's chat about that more there.

133
00:31:35.880 --> 00:31:45.880
Justin Traglia: And there are still some open PRs that need to be reviewed and, either closed or merged, so please take some time to review those when we have a chance.

134
00:31:54.010 --> 00:32:00.080
Barnabas: As we basically get rid of the PBS breakout rooms, I think this would be the place to discuss those PRs.

135
00:32:02.110 --> 00:32:02.840
Justin Traglia: Okay.

136
00:32:04.730 --> 00:32:10.129
Barnabas: Do you want to run through them, Justin? Sorry, I don't want to hijack the call, Mario.

137
00:32:11.250 --> 00:32:18.239
Justin Traglia: Firefighter, I'm not super prepared to share my screen or anything. Mario, would you like to?

138
00:32:20.200 --> 00:32:24.690
Mario Vega: Yes, no problem. So which PR should we start with?

139
00:32:25.280 --> 00:32:27.290
Justin Traglia: We can start with the first PR in the list.

140
00:32:27.720 --> 00:32:29.950
Mario Vega: I'm looking at it, it's the…

141
00:32:30.650 --> 00:32:34.929
Justin Traglia: Add is higher value bid helper for bid forwarding.

142
00:32:35.250 --> 00:32:39.249
Justin Traglia: threshold. It's sort of like a DOS prevention,

143
00:32:39.470 --> 00:32:43.839
Justin Traglia: I haven't responded to Maribos' comment yet, but

144
00:32:44.210 --> 00:32:49.879
Justin Traglia: Essentially, we can add a percentage increase minimum for new bids. So, like,

145
00:32:50.820 --> 00:32:57.290
Justin Traglia: Yeah. In order to forward a bid, you have to receive one that's, like, 1-3% higher than the previous highest bid.

146
00:32:57.470 --> 00:33:01.190
Justin Traglia: It sort of prevents the total number of messages that can be propagated.

147
00:33:01.490 --> 00:33:05.670
Justin Traglia: That way, it's not like… One GUI increase every single time.

148
00:33:10.710 --> 00:33:15.920
Mario Vega: I also cannot share screen. Can someone help out to share DPRs on screen, please?

149
00:33:16.600 --> 00:33:18.130
Justin Traglia: I can probably do it.

150
00:33:19.190 --> 00:33:22.420
Justin Traglia: Just, enable this setting, though. Okay, maybe I can't do it.

151
00:33:29.710 --> 00:33:32.250
Justin Traglia: I would have to rejoin in order to share my screen.

152
00:33:38.320 --> 00:33:39.800
Justin Traglia: Perfect. Thank you.

153
00:33:41.450 --> 00:33:42.880
Justin Traglia: Yeah, that's the one.

154
00:33:43.380 --> 00:33:52.780
Justin Traglia: So, if we were to define a 1% percentage increase, there could be, like, 2,000 messages to reach 1 ETH, which I think is, like, a good maximum.

155
00:33:53.900 --> 00:33:59.070
Justin Traglia: If we were to do this, I might suggest, like, a 3% increase, just, like, as the middle of the road.

156
00:33:59.230 --> 00:34:01.180
Justin Traglia: Yeah.

157
00:34:01.760 --> 00:34:06.599
Justin Traglia: what do client teams or other people feel about this? Barnabas had a

158
00:34:06.810 --> 00:34:11.039
Justin Traglia: an interesting suggestion. Maybe you want to talk about that some, too?

159
00:34:15.050 --> 00:34:25.250
Barnabas: Yeah, so my suggestion was that the fixed 3% might be a bit too rough, especially when the block prices are a bit higher.

160
00:34:25.250 --> 00:34:36.429
Barnabas: So I would actually suggest that we introduce a floor, so a minimum increase, so when the, book value is very low, then,

161
00:34:36.429 --> 00:34:44.459
Barnabas: We would not wait for this 3%, but we would say that the minimum increase we want to do is something like 0.0001 ETH.

162
00:34:44.639 --> 00:34:46.740
Barnabas: And we would also have a cap.

163
00:34:46.909 --> 00:34:50.750
Barnabas: So, when we reach, like, 0.5 ETH,

164
00:34:50.909 --> 00:34:55.030
Barnabas: then we will use a cap value of, like, 0.01 ETH.

165
00:34:55.270 --> 00:35:00.199
Barnabas: And that way, the min, min floor plus the max cap,

166
00:35:00.360 --> 00:35:06.240
Barnabas: Values would lower the total number of, spam transactions,

167
00:35:06.700 --> 00:35:11.350
Barnabas: To, like, 500 to 256, 1 to 3%.

168
00:35:18.970 --> 00:35:20.380
Justin Traglia: That sounds reasonable to me.

169
00:35:29.070 --> 00:35:31.810
Justin Traglia: How do other, people feel about this PR?

170
00:35:32.130 --> 00:35:33.210
Justin Traglia: Just, like, in general.

171
00:35:40.500 --> 00:35:46.539
Mario Vega: Have client teams, had a chance to, check this review? See, Boros, please go ahead.

172
00:35:48.000 --> 00:35:49.000
Potuz: Yeah, so…

173
00:35:49.240 --> 00:36:00.279
Potuz: I mean, I don't oppose this PR, and I certainly think that clients should implement a version of this. Percentage, minimum, whatever it is to prevent the OS.

174
00:36:00.490 --> 00:36:19.980
Potuz: I just want to call out that this is not enforceable in any way, so this is a P2P specification that we cannot downscore peers for sending us bids that are of low value, because that might be the highest value they have seen. We can probably downscore peers that send us,

175
00:36:20.540 --> 00:36:29.239
Potuz: a bid with a lower value that they themselves have sent us before, but that's going to be hard to keep track. That's gonna,

176
00:36:29.360 --> 00:36:36.200
Potuz: I mean, that has to be specified, and we will have to, like, keep track of what each peer sent us before, and so forth.

177
00:36:37.310 --> 00:36:39.849
Potuz: In order to be actually enforceable in a way.

178
00:36:40.370 --> 00:36:45.879
Potuz: And so, if we are not going to enforce downscoring of peers on this topic.

179
00:36:46.160 --> 00:36:52.630
Potuz: I would suggest that these things are not really specified at all, and just allow clients to implement this.

180
00:36:53.140 --> 00:36:56.830
Potuz: Instead of, like, having to have a more complex

181
00:36:57.390 --> 00:37:00.960
Potuz: spec. I tend to lean into having

182
00:37:01.690 --> 00:37:12.909
Potuz: smaller specification… less specification on things that cannot be enforced, and we just agreed that we have good defaults. But I don't mind if this is merged. We are going to implement this anyways.

183
00:37:13.840 --> 00:37:18.800
Potuz: If people believe that it's good to have this specified, that's fine.

184
00:37:22.060 --> 00:37:27.870
Justin Traglia: Yeah, you're completely right. If other client teams, agree with just closing the PR, we can close it.

185
00:37:35.690 --> 00:37:38.180
Mario Vega: Any comments from other GLAN teams on this call?

186
00:37:45.670 --> 00:37:50.140
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): 1… So, I agree with Bottus,

187
00:37:50.640 --> 00:37:59.539
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Partially. I think, like, if someone wants to go to the complicated path to actually implement something…

188
00:38:00.070 --> 00:38:07.510
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Maybe we should have a common rule that says this is… not…

189
00:38:07.800 --> 00:38:11.090
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Valid, and based on that, you don't score?

190
00:38:11.410 --> 00:38:27.219
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So, the complicated is… the complicated implementation would be actually tracking what has been sent by each peer, and then you take a decision. If you don't have these details, maybe you don't… you close the door

191
00:38:27.360 --> 00:38:32.560
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): To… to implement any… any downscore at all, because we don't have any, anything.

192
00:38:32.940 --> 00:38:37.719
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): I don't always make sense.

193
00:38:38.540 --> 00:38:45.190
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So I'm actually in favor of something like that, having it good, good specs.

194
00:38:45.450 --> 00:38:51.749
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Maybe not super detailed, but the… Overall limits that are,

195
00:38:52.380 --> 00:38:59.530
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): acceptable, and then based on that, we can potentially then score if clients want to implement.

196
00:39:01.130 --> 00:39:06.710
Justin Traglia: We could just add a paragraph stating that clients May or should,

197
00:39:06.900 --> 00:39:09.719
Justin Traglia: Implement something like this, but not actually define what it is.

198
00:39:09.720 --> 00:39:13.179
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, but we need to have a common limit.

199
00:39:14.120 --> 00:39:17.429
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): That… that's my point, that's my point. So you… if you'.

200
00:39:17.430 --> 00:39:18.190
Justin Traglia: Don't ask me.

201
00:39:18.520 --> 00:39:19.639
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Saying… I don't agree.

202
00:39:19.640 --> 00:39:21.079
Justin Traglia: We actually need a common limit.

203
00:39:21.410 --> 00:39:24.989
Justin Traglia: I mean, client teams could do whatever they want here, like Proto said, it's not.

204
00:39:24.990 --> 00:39:43.889
Potuz: No, no, no, no, I think what Enrico's saying is that if we are going to downscore, for example, because you sent me a bid, and then you sent me another bid that was only, like, a fraction more, higher than the previous one, then I will downscore you. If we are going to have something like this, I mean, if there's going to be enforcement of this kind of rules.

205
00:39:43.890 --> 00:39:49.290
Potuz: Then we need to specify it, because then… then we actually need to have a hard value, that if you send me

206
00:39:49.290 --> 00:39:53.230
Potuz: lower than this, I will downscore you, and you will be isolated.

207
00:39:53.690 --> 00:39:55.610
Justin Traglia: Oh, I see. I agree with Enrico.

208
00:39:56.110 --> 00:40:02.579
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, we need to have consistent behavior among clients if we want to have something like that. That's my take.

209
00:40:03.240 --> 00:40:09.530
Potuz: I didn't… I don't think we are, I don't really think we are going to,

210
00:40:10.460 --> 00:40:13.120
Potuz: To… to be implementing something like this.

211
00:40:13.590 --> 00:40:16.459
Potuz: So I'm not… I'm not really sure. -

212
00:40:17.100 --> 00:40:20.920
Potuz: Perhaps we should kick this scan for down the road, because…

213
00:40:21.190 --> 00:40:23.170
Potuz: It might be complicated to implement this.

214
00:40:24.700 --> 00:40:26.690
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, the full down score for sure.

215
00:40:27.180 --> 00:40:30.420
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): But… Oh, yeah.

216
00:40:32.660 --> 00:40:34.479
Justin Traglia: Okay. Yeah, let's just kick it down the road.

217
00:40:35.490 --> 00:40:37.240
Justin Traglia: Next PR, please.

218
00:40:39.710 --> 00:40:42.969
Justin Traglia: And Potus, this is yours. Would you like to talk about it?

219
00:40:44.440 --> 00:40:57.639
Potuz: Oh, this is a bug fix, but at the same time, it allows us to… to have builders, some set of builders, right at the fork. The issues that on the PR that we opened, that

220
00:40:57.800 --> 00:40:59.390
Potuz: that,

221
00:40:59.680 --> 00:41:14.549
Potuz: makes builders a different slides that are not validators, so their stake is not validating in any way. In that PR, we dealt with deposits in a very special way. So we… when you get a deposit request.

222
00:41:14.780 --> 00:41:21.849
Potuz: For a builder address, so that's a builder that starts with the withdrawal, address starts with 003.

223
00:41:23.140 --> 00:41:31.249
Potuz: Then, if there's no validator with that withdrawal address, we onboard that builder immediately. We fulfill that deposit immediately.

224
00:41:32.100 --> 00:41:40.560
Potuz: If there was a validator with that address, then it goes through the standard process of, like, putting a queue and then adding to that validator.

225
00:41:41.310 --> 00:41:44.959
Potuz: Now, the problem is, what happens to those deposit requests?

226
00:41:45.590 --> 00:41:49.399
Potuz: That, that are included right before the fork.

227
00:41:50.550 --> 00:42:03.159
Potuz: So if you deposit for a 003 validator right before the fork, it will go through the standard pipeline, and you… it will put a pending deposit, because deposits for validators are only processed after finalization.

228
00:42:03.320 --> 00:42:08.840
Potuz: So, we will put a pending deposit for that validator in the… in the queue. And if you depo… if you…

229
00:42:08.910 --> 00:42:27.850
Potuz: Add a deposit request right at the fork for a builder, the same withdrawal address, then it would process it as a builder immediately, and then later on, when we process after finalization, we process the pending deposit, we will have both a builder and a validator with the same public key, and that's a problem.

230
00:42:29.560 --> 00:42:36.819
Potuz: So, in order to fix this, what I propose is something that I believe is, safe and easy.

231
00:42:37.100 --> 00:42:43.440
Potuz: But it needs to be validated by other clients, which is, at the fork, look through the pending queue.

232
00:42:43.990 --> 00:42:52.350
Potuz: Of validators, and if there's any pending, deposit for a 003 validator that is new, just onboard it as a builder.

233
00:42:52.880 --> 00:43:08.909
Potuz: Immediately at the fork. So transform any 003 deposit for a validator that is not yet included as a validator, then immediately process that deposit as a builder, remove from the pending queue, and then you have builders at the fork.

234
00:43:09.060 --> 00:43:20.880
Potuz: This… if this works, then it also solves the problem of not having builders at the fork, because builders can send these deposits in the last epoch before the…

235
00:43:21.260 --> 00:43:32.239
Potuz: Before the fork, so if they get included right before the fork in the last… during the last epoch, they will be already active and with balance in one slot after the fork.

236
00:43:38.060 --> 00:43:39.919
Justin Traglia: And then, to be clear,

237
00:43:40.550 --> 00:43:49.590
Justin Traglia: builders wouldn't be able to submit a peer-to-peer, like, P2P bids, until the next seed block after the fork, still. But you're saying that's still okay?

238
00:43:51.570 --> 00:44:03.480
Potuz: Yeah, so for… so that's… that's right. So the P2P, bidding, I don't think it's something critical, but it does seem that it's critical that we have the standard builders, that are already trusted.

239
00:44:03.650 --> 00:44:09.579
Potuz: to… to be able to build immediately at the fork, otherwise applications like Gaoswap might start falling.

240
00:44:15.570 --> 00:44:16.250
Justin Traglia: Okay.

241
00:44:20.540 --> 00:44:27.039
Justin Traglia: Yeah, that, PR makes sense to me. Do other client teams have opinions on it before moving on?

242
00:44:35.790 --> 00:44:44.690
Potuz: I just want to quick… quickly add something onto your comment. Builders will be able to submit P2P bids, I think. The only problem is that they won't have the preferences.

243
00:44:45.120 --> 00:44:49.629
Potuz: But bids, I believe, will be propagated, and the proposer might want to take them if…

244
00:44:49.990 --> 00:44:54.089
Potuz: If they agree with their view. Like, if my node, for example, would have

245
00:44:54.270 --> 00:45:01.360
Potuz: a preference that is very simple to see. If you send me, for my fee recipient D my withdrawal address, then I'll take that bid.

246
00:45:03.180 --> 00:45:08.390
Justin Traglia: Okay, but I mean, the… Proposer preferences, gossip topic, checks.

247
00:45:08.520 --> 00:45:15.600
Justin Traglia: do require the proposer preferences. Like, you won't forward preferences.

248
00:45:16.100 --> 00:45:20.489
Justin Traglia: If you don't know that it's correct, or wrong. I'm not saying it properly.

249
00:45:23.080 --> 00:45:29.429
Potuz: Also, we're tying, like, bid forwarding to, satisfying the preferences from the proposer.

250
00:45:29.830 --> 00:45:31.460
Justin Traglia: Yes, I think we are. At the moment.

251
00:45:31.460 --> 00:45:37.230
Potuz: that's… That might be bug prone. I hadn't noticed this.

252
00:45:37.870 --> 00:45:38.770
Justin Traglia: Aye.

253
00:45:39.040 --> 00:45:42.800
Potuz: I would make those two topics be independent.

254
00:45:44.500 --> 00:45:48.180
Potuz: So you're thinking that it's a good way of, like, preventing DOS?

255
00:45:50.100 --> 00:45:57.689
Justin Traglia: I mean, yes, but also just making sure that the bid you get is actually what you want.

256
00:45:57.950 --> 00:46:00.640
Justin Traglia: It's for the correct fee recipient and gas limit.

257
00:46:01.120 --> 00:46:02.180
Potuz: Yeah, yeah, so the proposal.

258
00:46:02.180 --> 00:46:02.760
Justin Traglia: someone else's.

259
00:46:02.760 --> 00:46:14.140
Potuz: proposer would do this, right? So the proposer would do that filtering for sure. What is not clear to me is that if other validators should be doing that filtering, because… I mean, it's fine if they do, but

260
00:46:15.040 --> 00:46:18.009
Potuz: It seems to me that these are two independent

261
00:46:18.800 --> 00:46:21.869
Potuz: two independent message propagations. What is the…

262
00:46:21.870 --> 00:46:25.429
Justin Traglia: I mean, what if you just forward a really high bid for the wrong fee recipient?

263
00:46:25.770 --> 00:46:26.630
Justin Traglia: And…

264
00:46:26.740 --> 00:46:31.980
Justin Traglia: the, like, the one that you eventually get will be incorrect. Or, like, you won't be able to accept it anyway.

265
00:46:33.430 --> 00:46:36.139
Justin Traglia: Because you're only gonna forward the highest bid, correct?

266
00:46:38.240 --> 00:46:42.170
Potuz: Yeah, well… Yes, and yeah, I believe so.

267
00:46:42.330 --> 00:46:44.129
Potuz: Because you could just send it to your.

268
00:46:44.130 --> 00:46:44.570
Justin Traglia: an attack.

269
00:46:44.570 --> 00:46:50.209
Potuz: And then… then it doesn't… it doesn't, yeah, it doesn't cost you anything. You… you just set your fee recipient to be yourself.

270
00:46:50.920 --> 00:46:52.289
Potuz: Yeah. Yeah, that's right.

271
00:46:52.290 --> 00:46:57.660
Mario Vega: And Justin Potos, can we move on to the next PR, just for the sake of time? We are…

272
00:46:57.760 --> 00:47:00.920
Mario Vega: Already spent a lot of time on this… on this PR.

273
00:47:00.920 --> 00:47:03.210
Justin Traglia: Oh yeah, of course, sorry.

274
00:47:03.500 --> 00:47:07.610
Justin Traglia: This is a simple PR with just, it,

275
00:47:08.840 --> 00:47:11.130
Justin Traglia: Sorry, refactors a paragraph saying that…

276
00:47:12.080 --> 00:47:14.520
Justin Traglia: Validators no longer have to broadcast.

277
00:47:14.670 --> 00:47:17.730
Justin Traglia: Or something like that, I don't recall. Barath, are you here?

278
00:47:19.990 --> 00:47:23.230
Bharath: Yep, sorry, I didn't know you brought it up.

279
00:47:23.780 --> 00:47:27.989
Bharath: But, no, I mean, the last time I was reading the consensus specs, like.

280
00:47:28.180 --> 00:47:37.350
Bharath: We weren't, like, setting, sorry, we were in… wait, let me… The silly ones.

281
00:47:37.540 --> 00:47:41.300
Bharath: Yeah, I think we weren't, like, setting the, so I think…

282
00:47:41.770 --> 00:47:47.589
Bharath: when a validator, like, self-builds, like, I think they have to broadcast the…

283
00:47:47.920 --> 00:47:52.929
Bharath: blobs to it. So, I mean, based on the self-building case, I think we weren't, like, clarifying that

284
00:47:53.080 --> 00:47:57.759
Bharath: Actually, could I take this offhand? Because, like, it's been a while since I've also lost context of this.

285
00:47:59.200 --> 00:48:00.969
Bharath: I'm sorry, sorry about that, Doug.

286
00:48:01.610 --> 00:48:02.630
Justin Traglia: Yeah, that's fine.

287
00:48:03.010 --> 00:48:06.470
Justin Traglia: I think we should also discuss the next one offline as well.

288
00:48:06.580 --> 00:48:11.259
Justin Traglia: Like, it's pretty complicated, and I… I definitely wouldn't be able to explain it in the next 3 minutes.

289
00:48:15.290 --> 00:48:16.150
Mario Vega: Sounds good.

290
00:48:16.280 --> 00:48:24.070
Mario Vega: Thank you. Alright, do we have a breakout for this, for the remaining OpenPRs, happening soon, or…

291
00:48:25.460 --> 00:48:29.839
Mario Vega: Should we just do this async, and wait until the next ACDT?

292
00:48:31.310 --> 00:48:33.179
Justin Traglia: I would prefer not to have a breakout call.

293
00:48:33.590 --> 00:48:36.830
Justin Traglia: I enjoyed not having that responsibility.

294
00:48:37.130 --> 00:48:38.990
Justin Traglia: So I would vote for async.

295
00:48:41.740 --> 00:48:42.620
Mario Vega: Sounds good.

296
00:48:43.180 --> 00:48:44.140
Mario Vega: Okay.

297
00:48:44.640 --> 00:48:47.360
Mario Vega: Great. Thanks for,

298
00:48:47.690 --> 00:49:01.539
Mario Vega: explain these PRs, and yeah, let's move to async, and yeah, I think this is basically the main blocker for DevNet, for EPBS, if I understand correctly. Yeah, Patus?

299
00:49:02.480 --> 00:49:11.669
Potuz: So, I don't know about the clients, the main blocker for us is that we need to have a freeze. If it's not on the spec, at least we need to have a freeze on the structures.

300
00:49:11.800 --> 00:49:18.499
Potuz: We don't want to have any more container changes, because that actually frozes our being able to merge and to develop.

301
00:49:18.790 --> 00:49:36.029
Potuz: And this is the only reason we are not merging PRs into develop, is because the structures themselves are in flux. So it would be nice to get into a situation in which we can actually freeze that, and if this is going to be the call that we are going to be making this decision, then we should really take the time and make these decisions here.

302
00:49:37.980 --> 00:49:39.640
Barnabas: Why can't we use alpha 1?

303
00:49:42.030 --> 00:49:45.580
Potuz: It's not clear if the structures are going to be changing or not.

304
00:49:52.930 --> 00:49:59.359
Mario Vega: But is it a problem if we start with alpha 1 and then modify the structures? What's the problem that you're envisioning?

305
00:49:59.710 --> 00:50:10.599
Potuz: No, it's not a problem, that if we decide to, like, to move the balances away from the builder and just having a normal slice for balances, then that actually is a big change for us.

306
00:50:14.870 --> 00:50:24.330
Potuz: I mean, the PR that we merged to make builders not validators was merged just a couple of weeks ago, and that is a very large PR.

307
00:50:24.720 --> 00:50:28.249
Potuz: So if we keep having these sort of, like, big changes.

308
00:50:28.370 --> 00:50:33.110
Potuz: Then… this is really a blocker for… releasing…

309
00:50:34.010 --> 00:50:39.580
Potuz: I think Alpha 1 looks good to me. It's just that it's not really clear to me that the structures are frozen.

310
00:50:41.130 --> 00:50:41.520
Justin Traglia: I don't think.

311
00:50:41.520 --> 00:50:42.030
Barnabas: Which I do…

312
00:50:42.030 --> 00:50:44.040
Justin Traglia: I guarantee they're frozen. But.

313
00:50:44.040 --> 00:50:50.999
Barnabas: Which other PR is changing the structure? Is it the onboarding builders from pending deposits?

314
00:50:51.440 --> 00:50:58.709
Justin Traglia: I mean, it's just, like, the thing that Potus just mentioned. Like, we may want to move builder balances into a separate

315
00:50:59.010 --> 00:51:01.610
Justin Traglia: State field.

316
00:51:02.220 --> 00:51:11.880
Barnabas: Right, but, like, that could be the scope of, like, DevNet3 or whatever. Like, I don't think we should be focusing on that, like, we can discuss it, I think, if we actually want to do that or not, but…

317
00:51:12.700 --> 00:51:17.799
Barnabas: I… I would just want to have a DevNet up and running with the current spec.

318
00:51:18.230 --> 00:51:19.689
Barnabas: And iterates from there.

319
00:51:21.420 --> 00:51:25.270
Barnabas: Because we've been trying to launch 11 since October.

320
00:51:26.250 --> 00:51:27.330
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I agree.

321
00:51:28.270 --> 00:51:29.759
Justin Traglia: We just need to get a definite.

322
00:51:30.530 --> 00:51:33.599
Potuz: Yeah, the problem, Barnabas, is also the other way around.

323
00:51:33.760 --> 00:51:43.779
Potuz: if we do find changes… we could have frozen a couple of releases ago when the builders were validators, because anyways, the DevNet doesn't have external builders.

324
00:51:44.130 --> 00:51:45.630
Potuz: We agreed on that, too.

325
00:51:45.930 --> 00:51:56.869
Potuz: But the problem is that if we do something like that, and we freeze on one release, then we can't really release anything new on the specs, because

326
00:51:57.170 --> 00:52:03.780
Potuz: Whenever there's a new spec test, a new spec release, then we need to Satisfied those spec tests.

327
00:52:04.370 --> 00:52:10.689
Potuz: So, as soon as we freeze for the next DevNet, we cannot merge anything on the consensus layer spec.

328
00:52:10.830 --> 00:52:17.260
Potuz: That changes any structure, for example, because otherwise we will just start failing test vectors.

329
00:52:18.660 --> 00:52:25.699
Barnabas: For, like, 2 weeks. Like, if we do a two-week, test cycle, and we say that the next change will come in in 2 weeks.

330
00:52:25.900 --> 00:52:28.129
Barnabas: Yeah, for two weeks, we would need to…

331
00:52:28.130 --> 00:52:32.160
Potuz: way, we're gonna have a DevNet in two weeks. That's just not gonna happen.

332
00:52:33.410 --> 00:52:39.960
Justin Traglia: I think he was saying to have a two-week cycle, so, like, after we get DevNet 0 up, then we could have DevNet 1, 2,

333
00:52:40.160 --> 00:52:41.319
Justin Traglia: Weeks after.

334
00:52:41.670 --> 00:52:47.199
Potuz: Yes, but then… but up to that point, up… so, if we freeze now on Alpha 1,

335
00:52:47.770 --> 00:52:57.659
Potuz: And let's say that we have a DevNet ready in a few weeks from now, until we are actually testing on DevNet, we cannot have any new release on the consistent spec.

336
00:52:58.750 --> 00:52:59.520
Marius van der Wijden: Why?

337
00:53:01.330 --> 00:53:01.850
Marius van der Wijden: Because…

338
00:53:01.850 --> 00:53:14.450
Potuz: because we take it in a trustless manner, what are the spec vectors, the test spec vectors? So we take it from the release, we grab the spec test vectors, and we just pass specs like that on our main branch.

339
00:53:14.610 --> 00:53:15.230
Potuz: So, if.

340
00:53:15.230 --> 00:53:15.820
Marius van der Wijden: Yeah, just…

341
00:53:15.820 --> 00:53:17.340
Potuz: structure changes.

342
00:53:17.730 --> 00:53:19.019
Potuz: We will…

343
00:53:19.830 --> 00:53:25.210
Marius van der Wijden: you could just mock them out, right? Like, you can just specify a different branch, or a different release, or…

344
00:53:25.780 --> 00:53:26.380
Potuz: Yeah.

345
00:53:26.380 --> 00:53:29.299
Marius van der Wijden: And then… Remote, where you get the test vectors from.

346
00:53:29.900 --> 00:53:31.510
Potuz: It can be cased.

347
00:53:31.700 --> 00:53:46.399
Potuz: But we really don't want to be casing on our production code, like, we are skipping these tests, or, like, passing these tests this way for this DevNet and this other production for the actual, mainnet release.

348
00:53:47.090 --> 00:53:50.019
Potuz: So, we prefer if we…

349
00:53:50.300 --> 00:53:55.809
Potuz: If, when we freeze, we prefer that the spec test vectors are actually what we're going to be testing.

350
00:53:59.020 --> 00:54:06.050
Justin Traglia: Couldn't you just ignore the new spec release as well? I mean, like, the changes… the changes that we're making don't really affect.

351
00:54:06.090 --> 00:54:08.200
Potuz: Like, Fusaka Mainnet right now.

352
00:54:08.730 --> 00:54:09.590
Potuz: Well…

353
00:54:09.880 --> 00:54:16.710
Potuz: It depends, right? So you had, for example, something that was pushed that changed the test vectors for phase 0.

354
00:54:16.840 --> 00:54:21.860
Potuz: Like, if there's anything that changes the expected vectors for Fulu, then we really want to pass them.

355
00:54:22.430 --> 00:54:31.810
Barnabas: I agree with that, but I don't think from alpha 1 to Alpha 2, we will change anything that's pre-gloss, and we shouldn't change pre-gloss stuff anymore.

356
00:54:33.820 --> 00:54:35.440
Potuz: If that happens, then we're fine.

357
00:54:35.760 --> 00:54:40.579
Potuz: I mean, if only new releases are only changing Gloas, We're… we're happy.

358
00:54:43.960 --> 00:54:52.120
Justin Traglia: Okay. I mean, like, I want to be able to refactor and approve code, but as long as it doesn't change the spec test, is what you're saying.

359
00:54:55.040 --> 00:54:55.610
Potuz: Yep.

360
00:54:56.650 --> 00:54:57.280
Justin Traglia: Okay.

361
00:55:03.000 --> 00:55:04.780
Mario Vega: Alright,

362
00:55:07.870 --> 00:55:18.740
Mario Vega: Alright, yeah, and I think we have to timeboxes, and then move on to, EL AIP prioritization.

363
00:55:19.500 --> 00:55:29.479
Mario Vega: Any last comments on the CL topic at the moment for EPBS? From other clients, mainly. I would like to hear thoughts on other clients.

364
00:55:39.470 --> 00:55:47.829
Mario Vega: Alright, yeah, on the EL side, I shared a link… for the CF5,

365
00:55:47.980 --> 00:55:51.570
Mario Vega: So far… the so far, CFI, EIBs.

366
00:55:51.600 --> 00:56:11.439
Mario Vega: Which are this one. And my… the main thing that I want to… I would like to resolve on this call is for, for the specs and the spec tests to be on the same page, and basically, in lockstep with the client implementations. At the moment, we have, I think, if I,

367
00:56:11.820 --> 00:56:14.640
Mario Vega: 9 CFI EIPs?

368
00:56:14.790 --> 00:56:20.540
Mario Vega: If I… if I understood correctly. So, what I would like to… for us to… to go over this…

369
00:56:20.650 --> 00:56:27.399
Mario Vega: Skull is the EIPs that we want to implement first in the specs and tests, just for us to have a release.

370
00:56:27.530 --> 00:56:30.890
Mario Vega: for the ELs, that works on top of log-level access lists.

371
00:56:31.020 --> 00:56:34.499
Mario Vega: And my suggestion is,

372
00:56:34.700 --> 00:56:39.760
Mario Vega: the… that we implement the first four CFI EIPs.

373
00:56:40.000 --> 00:56:47.729
Mario Vega: For the next, next release, which is, 7-7… 7778?

374
00:56:48.900 --> 00:56:52.550
Mario Vega: 7708008?

375
00:56:53.620 --> 00:56:55.800
Mario Vega: 7843.

376
00:56:56.700 --> 00:56:59.250
Mario Vega: and 80-24.

377
00:57:00.140 --> 00:57:14.000
Mario Vega: So this is my, recommendation, but I would like to hear from clients if there is any client that already started implementing these EIPs, or any other CFI EIPs, that's what I want to hear.

378
00:57:14.230 --> 00:57:16.810
Mario Vega: In the skull.

379
00:57:18.390 --> 00:57:33.699
Mario Vega: Yes, these are EL-only changes, basically. So we can basically, in parallel, while EPVS is being ready for Devon0, we can start implementing this in tests, and make a release on the tests, just to make sure that we are ready for

380
00:57:33.700 --> 00:57:38.530
Mario Vega: with something on top of log-level access list for DevNet, for the first DevNet.

381
00:57:39.130 --> 00:57:45.830
Barnabas: Oh, we can also just target ball.net too, I think, with these on top of… as extra.

382
00:57:46.430 --> 00:57:52.119
Barnabas: Because I don't think we can have a glance again, like, a combined GDPBS definite anytime soon.

383
00:57:52.620 --> 00:58:00.479
Mario Vega: Yeah, that also makes sense. I think, as long as we keep moving on the EL side, while EPBS is being ready.

384
00:58:00.740 --> 00:58:03.510
Mario Vega: I think that's, that's, that's a positive.

385
00:58:05.420 --> 00:58:15.219
Barnabas: I think we can totally do, Ball.net 2, with these 4 EIPs included already, and then with Ball.net 3, for example, we would include 4 more.

386
00:58:15.950 --> 00:58:18.259
Barnabas: And just keep moving forward like that.

387
00:58:18.450 --> 00:58:22.770
Barnabas: as long as they are EL-only changes, I don't see much of a problem.

388
00:58:24.290 --> 00:58:33.809
Mario Vega: Sounds good. Yeah. Any thoughts from the EL clients? Does this sound like a reasonable approach?

389
00:58:35.570 --> 00:58:36.500
Mario Vega: Okay.

390
00:58:37.950 --> 00:58:43.930
Mario Vega: Nevermind mentions that they already have Sultan, which is good, because that's one of the EIPs.

391
00:58:44.710 --> 00:58:46.759
Mario Vega: And it's easy for a test to implement?

392
00:58:47.680 --> 00:58:54.709
Mario Vega: Have other clients already started implementing any of the CFI EIPs for Glamsterlam?

393
00:58:57.050 --> 00:58:58.210
Marius van der Wijden: We haven't yet.

394
00:58:59.000 --> 00:59:02.649
Marius van der Wijden: But we will make a plan this weekend, implement everything.

395
00:59:03.050 --> 00:59:04.439
Marius van der Wijden: As soon as possible.

396
00:59:04.890 --> 00:59:11.010
Marius van der Wijden: Yeah, I guess it's easy to start with those, because they are very easily implementable and testable.

397
00:59:15.500 --> 00:59:19.449
Mario Vega: Thank you. Any other ELs?

398
00:59:36.630 --> 00:59:37.580
Mario Vega: Alright.

399
00:59:37.910 --> 00:59:44.640
Mario Vega: Any oppositions, to these EIPs, being the first one implemented and released on the tests?

400
00:59:46.570 --> 00:59:49.659
Mario Vega: I shared the link on the chat if anyone wants to take a look.

401
01:00:00.970 --> 01:00:08.449
Mario Vega: Okay, so I think what we can start doing is, we'll start, implementing tests and specs for this.

402
01:00:08.710 --> 01:00:17.419
Mario Vega: And try to make a release, but we will have updates on the next week. I think Yale clients should also provide an update on next week's ACDT.

403
01:00:17.610 --> 01:00:21.630
Mario Vega: for the status of these EIBs,

404
01:00:23.190 --> 01:00:29.939
Mario Vega: Yep, I think that's, that's everything from, for this topic. Any comments on this? Is this…

405
01:00:32.050 --> 01:00:38.469
Mario Vega: And one comment from Marius is that E-Transfer 1 is the most complex, should we try to tackle first? Alright. Yeah, I agree.

406
01:00:48.230 --> 01:00:50.020
Barnabas: When do we want to have the nut to?

407
01:00:51.970 --> 01:00:57.410
Mario Vega: That's a good question. I… I was thinking that we… Should…

408
01:00:57.590 --> 01:01:03.710
Mario Vega: Target the next couple of weeks, but what we can do is perhaps, query the status.

409
01:01:04.130 --> 01:01:07.639
Mario Vega: in next call, next ACDT, and decide then.

410
01:01:08.090 --> 01:01:10.879
Mario Vega: If, the specs and tests are

411
01:01:11.020 --> 01:01:17.809
Mario Vega: or the EL client implementations are falling behind. By the next ACDT, I think we can,

412
01:01:18.130 --> 01:01:23.200
Mario Vega: Give another week, and then, see how… how things are going.

413
01:01:25.240 --> 01:01:29.449
Barnabas: Do we know what the timeline would be for the test, for these four EIPs?

414
01:01:30.140 --> 01:01:34.060
Mario Vega: That's a good question. These are the simplest.

415
01:01:34.200 --> 01:01:36.410
Mario Vega: Well, except for the,

416
01:01:36.900 --> 01:01:45.069
Mario Vega: 77008, that's the most complex one, but I think for the rest of the EIPs, it shouldn't be…

417
01:01:45.250 --> 01:01:50.069
Mario Vega: That hard to start this week with implementation, yeah.

418
01:01:59.460 --> 01:02:02.530
Mario Vega: Alright, any other comments?

419
01:02:10.710 --> 01:02:19.700
Mario Vega: And, yeah, January 21… 21st, sorry, sounds like, a good deadline for Debna 2 of Blockload Access List.

420
01:02:26.040 --> 01:02:28.480
Mario Vega: Cool. Any other comments on this?

421
01:02:29.150 --> 01:02:31.209
Mario Vega: Or should we move on to the next topic?

422
01:02:38.190 --> 01:02:40.860
Mario Vega: All right. Thank you.

423
01:02:41.340 --> 01:02:49.350
Mario Vega: We have 3 other topics, the first one is the, Gas limit increase.

424
01:02:49.670 --> 01:02:56.170
Mario Vega: The 80 milliga… Do we have anything, anyone that can shame in on the status of this?

425
01:03:01.080 --> 01:03:01.720
Kamil Chodoła: Aye?

426
01:03:02.230 --> 01:03:09.799
Kamil Chodoła: So yeah, I can chime in on that. So, basically, Martin from our team is analyzing the recent results, and we'll be reaching out to the teams.

427
01:03:09.960 --> 01:03:22.750
Kamil Chodoła: We find updates, etc, to get information if we should make some improvements, in clients. And yeah, it's right now being finalized, so we'll share some updates rather soon.

428
01:03:24.130 --> 01:03:33.710
Marcin Sobczak: Yes, and probably we would like to aim in 75 million, as a next step.

429
01:03:33.810 --> 01:03:52.800
Marcin Sobczak: And I'm analyzing the data right now, and we'll share with client teams, probably not today, but should be ready tomorrow. And there are some client-specific bottlenecks. Yes, I will share it soon.

430
01:04:00.960 --> 01:04:03.610
Mario Vega: And one comment, from Maris is that…

431
01:04:04.910 --> 01:04:07.540
Mario Vega: 75 million gases are not important at the moment.

432
01:04:07.830 --> 01:04:09.760
Mario Vega: And we should focus on repricings.

433
01:04:13.380 --> 01:04:17.629
Kamil Chodoła: Yeah, focus on the pricing piece is there. We are working on that in parallel.

434
01:04:17.980 --> 01:04:21.969
Kamil Chodoła: But we are just checking in meantime if we can do anything before.

435
01:04:22.090 --> 01:04:28.500
Kamil Chodoła: We know about if 70 and it needs to be implemented, but this unstucks anything above, 80.

436
01:04:29.010 --> 01:04:33.229
Kamil Chodoła: So yeah, so that's why we are just analyzing the anxiety if we…

437
01:04:33.500 --> 01:04:38.489
Kamil Chodoła: Can do something, or we should… we have a new bottlenecks which should be addressed before.

438
01:04:40.320 --> 01:04:47.620
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, and this, it's likely that, increasing to 75 will be, like,

439
01:04:47.620 --> 01:05:02.500
Marcin Sobczak: low, low effort from all the clients, like, there will be probably some specific bottlenecks which would need to be addressed at some point anyway, to just be performance across client be similar.

440
01:05:02.540 --> 01:05:05.570
Marcin Sobczak: And, yeah, that's the point.

441
01:05:09.690 --> 01:05:15.789
Mario Vega: Alright, thanks. Marty and Camille, do you need anything from other EL clients at this point?

442
01:05:22.800 --> 01:05:30.869
Kamil Chodoła: Are there any blockers for… Nothing in particular, just maybe some… if Martin came up with some interesting findings, then we'll reach out.

443
01:05:31.870 --> 01:05:46.259
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, we share on, on Telegram, on the gas limit testing channel, and, there will be probably some, some scenarios, like client-specific scenarios, to take a look.

444
01:05:47.200 --> 01:05:51.980
Marcin Sobczak: So, like, like usual, when, when I'm sharing such, such analysis.

445
01:05:54.240 --> 01:06:02.730
Mario Vega: Sounds good. Thank you. Yeah, I think… and also the next topic is also relevant to… to you, Marcin.

446
01:06:03.690 --> 01:06:08.069
Mario Vega: Which is the WRPC endpoint, should we just jump into that?

447
01:06:11.790 --> 01:06:15.300
Mario Vega: Psh, I share a link of the, of the PR.

448
01:06:16.800 --> 01:06:34.619
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, so, the spec, the spec in, like, in current form is, is ready, and, NetRoman implementation, implementation, is also, ready, but not tested, so,

449
01:06:34.620 --> 01:06:51.260
Marcin Sobczak: is the point when we can try to, to use it, and, then if there would have some issues, then, I will fix it, but it was, like, before, Christmas break,

450
01:06:51.260 --> 01:07:02.269
Marcin Sobczak: I implemented it and didn't have time for testing, and after the break, there were more urgent issues, so it's generally done, but under-tested.

451
01:07:11.530 --> 01:07:12.240
Mario Vega: Alright.

452
01:07:12.680 --> 01:07:14.399
Mario Vega: Thank you.

453
01:07:15.580 --> 01:07:22.030
Mario Vega: I think on this call, I… do you need still some feedback, right, from the ELs on this endpoint, right?

454
01:07:24.230 --> 01:07:29.750
Mario Vega: Or have the other EL clients already chimed in in your PR, or do you need some more feedback?

455
01:07:30.910 --> 01:07:44.270
Marcin Sobczak: There is implementation from Nethermind and from RAF, and we had feedback from Bezo, and some discussion, and yeah, that's it.

456
01:07:48.440 --> 01:07:52.800
Mario Vega: Sounds good. From the testing side, I think we can…

457
01:07:53.280 --> 01:07:57.640
Mario Vega: help out, we can discuss this later on the,

458
01:07:58.010 --> 01:08:07.050
Mario Vega: gas testing call, but I think we can provide help on the execute side. We can start seeing how we can implement this on the execute for ills.

459
01:08:07.550 --> 01:08:11.239
Mario Vega: And help you with the testing and validation of this endpoint.

460
01:08:14.900 --> 01:08:15.490
Mario Vega: Alright.

461
01:08:15.490 --> 01:08:29.050
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, it would be great to just start using it, and in case of any issues, I will fix it, and maybe we will find that, like, we need to modify it somehow, or, like, just to…

462
01:08:29.050 --> 01:08:36.009
Marcin Sobczak: We need to track what will be the best shape of it to be as useful as possible.

463
01:08:39.060 --> 01:08:40.040
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you.

464
01:08:40.170 --> 01:08:49.249
Mario Vega: Perfect. Yeah, and jumping onto the last topic for today, we have, this PR.

465
01:08:49.640 --> 01:08:52.830
Mario Vega: on the execution APs,

466
01:08:53.130 --> 01:08:58.359
Mario Vega: Is there anyone here that has more context, or would like to add context to this?

467
01:09:00.609 --> 01:09:06.129
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, hello. I can. Hey everyone, this is Simpson.

468
01:09:06.809 --> 01:09:14.969
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So a while back, we started working on, standardizing JSON RPC error codes. This is mainly because

469
01:09:15.119 --> 01:09:18.919
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: The current error codes are not really meaningful.

470
01:09:19.059 --> 01:09:25.319
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, it's overlapping between different errors, which means we cannot rely on these error codes to

471
01:09:25.799 --> 01:09:28.379
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Definitely mean one single thing.

472
01:09:28.749 --> 01:09:42.929
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So we… we wanted to standardize AI. We presented this a while back. Since then, we've been working and, refining this in the RPC forum, in the RPC call, and, got some valuable input from.

473
01:09:43.089 --> 01:09:49.479
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: different client groups, and we refine this. So it is at a stage, where we can

474
01:09:49.609 --> 01:09:59.869
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: you know, exposed to the wider audience and get more feedback, get it ready to march. So that's the PR. Thanks for putting it in the chat. Please take a look at it.

475
01:10:00.239 --> 01:10:16.299
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: But I can walk through, this in, like, 2 minutes, quickly. So, the proposal itself is very simple. To get… to implement this proposal, we've been working with the OpenRPC Foundation, and, because of…

476
01:10:16.429 --> 01:10:26.129
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: There are extension specification, which is a new concept, allowing you to plug customized specification extensions, which we needed to utilize

477
01:10:26.339 --> 01:10:34.469
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And implement, this particular proposal, so they helped us, define error group specification extension.

478
01:10:34.779 --> 01:10:50.659
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: With that, we are able to implement this proposal. If you look at the proposal, it's very simple. So, we pre-defined some error groups. Let's take gas errors or execution errors, for example. Actually, I can share my screen, if you don't mind.

479
01:10:51.810 --> 01:10:52.830
Mario Vega: Yes, please, go ahead.

480
01:10:54.320 --> 01:10:58.269
Mario Vega: Just to mention that we already have… only have 4 minutes, so…

481
01:10:58.820 --> 01:11:01.540
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Yeah, I'll make you really quick. Yeah, thank you.

482
01:11:01.560 --> 01:11:12.830
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So yeah, we have a couple of error groups predefined gas execution, transaction pool. These are initial, and this is only to cover the most

483
01:11:12.830 --> 01:11:21.950
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: famous ones, if I can say so, which are useful for cross-team clients and maybe wallet or users who rely on these to react.

484
01:11:21.950 --> 01:11:41.790
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: React in the sense, let's say, you get a nonce to low error. If you get an error code that's known for non-s to low error, they can react to it in a way, increasing the nonce, and so on and so forth. So you predefine some error ranges to each error group, and predefine the numbers for error… each error.

485
01:11:41.790 --> 01:11:44.020
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: If you go into the,

486
01:11:44.230 --> 01:11:47.259
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: The spec spec is very simple,

487
01:11:47.940 --> 01:11:58.509
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: Let's take gassers, and it says, let's take, maybe, transaction pool. You get a transaction already known as, let's say, 1000.

488
01:11:58.520 --> 01:12:13.400
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: These, these are defined along with the executioners, which is very famous. We have, executioner by revert opcode, which is still 3. We try to cover, keep it to a minimal change, where you don't have to change too many, but then,

489
01:12:13.410 --> 01:12:25.359
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: At least to cover the popular error groups. That is it. It's very simple. The only caveat here is I tried to implement a test that generalizes this for multiple clients. You can see the

490
01:12:25.360 --> 01:12:43.550
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: basic client get, and Netherland has already been covered, but it's not consistent in a way that you cannot reproduce these negative test cases for each… all these scenarios, all the error codes that I've written, to… to produce the same output, because all these clients don't…

491
01:12:43.550 --> 01:12:52.719
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: allow you to set the limits. For example, to get a, gas, or out of gas error, maybe GET has a…

492
01:12:52.720 --> 01:13:08.340
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: field that I can set to replicate this, but maybe not on Nevermind or BASO. And these tests can be extended to different clients, but we have some sort of test that actually helps validate how the current client behaves to replicate these negative scenarios.

493
01:13:08.630 --> 01:13:21.769
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: And, see how we can fix it. But as you see, minus 32,000 is across a lot of errors, and which doesn't mean we can rely on minus 32,000 to mean it's a gas tube, too low or, too high.

494
01:13:21.770 --> 01:13:34.419
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: So that's what we want to fix. I do think we have a good alignment within the RPC forum, but want to bring it to a wider audience and decide on the next steps. So if you…

495
01:13:34.450 --> 01:13:43.559
Simsonraj Easvarasakthi: if you guys can take a look at it and agree, we can get this merged as soon as we can, and then start implementing the test on a proper form. I'll start right there for any feedback.

496
01:13:46.470 --> 01:13:59.610
Mario Vega: Thank you. I think we are running out of time, but please, your clients, if you can take a look into this PR, just to make sure that we have enough feedback before trying to merge. That would be really appreciated.

497
01:14:02.140 --> 01:14:05.479
Mario Vega: And thank you. Thank you for the presentation.

498
01:14:05.820 --> 01:14:09.880
Mario Vega: Alright, I think that's it for today. Any last closing comments?

499
01:14:10.570 --> 01:14:11.930
Mario Vega: Before we wrap up.

500
01:14:18.550 --> 01:14:22.640
Mario Vega: If not, I think we can finish the call there. Thanks everyone for joining.

501
01:14:22.820 --> 01:14:23.939
Mario Vega: And, yep.

502
01:14:24.900 --> 01:14:25.790
Mario Vega: Goodbye.

503
01:14:26.710 --> 01:14:27.250
Marius van der Wijden: Bye-bye.

504
01:14:28.760 --> 01:14:29.690
Dmitrii Shmatko: I don't care about.

