00:03:38	Gary Schulte:	gx ğŸ™‚
00:04:06	Gary Schulte:	joining early to give zoom a chance to unmute me at an earlier inopportune time today
00:04:23	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "joining early to giv..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:07	Justin Traglia:	Gm ğŸ™‚
00:05:12	lightclient:	damn even the birds were saying gm
00:05:19	Ben Edgington:	gm
00:05:25	Barnabas:	Justin has higher pitch than usual. Is that a post pectra vocal cord upgrade?
00:05:27	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it's like a disney movie up in here
00:06:25	Gabriel Astieres:	GM
00:07:13	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "Justin has higher ..."

Screeming at his screen for too long because of the EOF debate in ACD
00:07:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	what a nice day for a drama free acd
00:07:33	Gabriel Astieres:	Reacted to "what a nice day fo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:36	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:37	Roman:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:38	felix (eest):	Reacted to "what a nice day fo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:38	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:41	nixo:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:42	Mario Vega:	gm
00:07:43	SanLeo:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:53	nixo:	gm
00:08:07	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:38	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:47	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1500
00:09:10	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "what a nice day for ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:09:50	stokes:	ğŸ‰
00:10:07	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with â¤ï¸
00:10:11	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with â¤ï¸
00:10:14	felipe:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with ğŸ‰
00:10:15	MariusVanDerWijden:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with â¤ï¸
00:10:17	MariusVanDerWijden:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with ğŸ‰
00:10:19	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with ğŸ‰
00:10:20	Roman:	On to the next!
00:10:24	Gabriel Astieres:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with â¤ï¸
00:10:25	Gabriel Astieres:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with ğŸ‰
00:10:37	Francis Li:	congrats everyone!
00:10:41	Justin Florentine (Besu):	or like idk, maybe take a nap?
00:11:13	nixo:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with â¤ï¸
00:11:15	nixo:	Reacted to "ğŸ‰" with ğŸ‰
00:11:19	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "or like idk, maybe..."

No sleeping.  Go build Fusaka!
00:11:25	SanLeo:	Replying to "or like idk, maybe t..."

aint no rest for the wicked
00:11:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "or like idk, maybe t..."

Normalize Being Human
00:11:42	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "or like idk, maybe..."

After the fork is before the fork
00:11:53	Roman:	Reacted to "After the fork is be..." with ğŸ’¯
00:11:54	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "After the fork is ..." with ğŸ¤”
00:12:08	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "or like idk, maybe t..."

Treadmills have off buttons
00:12:15	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Treadmills have off ..." with ğŸ˜¢
00:12:16	Will Corcoran:	Iâ€™ll remove it RN
00:12:41	felix (eest):	Replying to "or like idk, maybe..."

there are no breaks on the eth train
00:12:57	Gary Schulte:	Replying to "or like idk, maybe t..."

or brakes
00:13:07	nixo:	Reacted to "Normalize Being Huma..." with ğŸ’™
00:13:12	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "Normalize Being Huma..." with ğŸ’™
00:13:15	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7935
00:13:15	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "or brakes" with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:21	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "or like idk, maybe..."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yI8dcvUPdco
00:13:30	felix (eest):	Replying to "or like idk, maybe..."

:(
00:13:35	felix (eest):	Reacted to "or brakes" with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:47	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Normalize Being Huma..." with ğŸ’™
00:13:49	SanLeo:	Reacted to "or brakes" with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:04	Barnabas:	First consolidation reaching the beaconchain in 13 mins on mainnet.
00:14:15	felix (eest):	Reacted to "https://www.youtub..." with ğŸ”¥
00:14:27	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "First consolidation ..." with ğŸš€
00:14:30	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "First consolidation ..." with ğŸš€
00:14:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Micah on ACD â¤ï¸
what a throwback
00:14:37	Justin Florentine (Besu):	150 is a common discussion
00:14:39	felipe:	Reacted to "Normalize Being Huma..." with ğŸ’™
00:14:52	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Micah on ACD â¤ï¸
what..." with â¤ï¸
00:15:02	MariusVanDerWijden:	60M is already a stretch with what state growth is atm
00:15:04	Sophia Gold:	Barring anythign unexpected, for sure should be higher than 60m
00:15:09	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	still dont think this needs its own EIP
00:15:15	felipe:	Reacted to "First consolidation ..." with ğŸš€
00:15:42	CPerezz:	Reacted to "60M is already a str..." with ğŸ‘
00:15:44	Barnabas:	I think it would be good to include default gas limit as part of the testing cycle. 

Peerdas itself is going to increase the general resource usage. 
Bumping the gas to 150M will most def. also increase the resource usage.
00:15:54	Barnabas:	So it would be good to test the two together.
00:16:02	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:07	Barnabas:	Replying to "still dont think thi..."

without an EIP it wont be tested together with other EIPs
00:16:09	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "So it would be good ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:16:11	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "without an EIP it wo..." with â•
00:16:20	Åukasz Rozmej:	RPC is horizontally scallable though, for example Besu has RPC fleet mode for state calls
00:16:21	Barnabas:	Replying to "still dont think thi..."

It needs to be formally discussed
00:16:21	Justin Florentine (Besu):	yeah, infura is very "near head"
00:16:23	nixo:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:29	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "still dont think thi..."

Think of it as a Jira ticket @Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind ğŸ˜„
00:16:29	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "without an EIP it wo..." with â•
00:16:39	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Think of it as a Jir..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:51	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Think of it as a Jir..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Think of it as a Jir..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:00	Advaita | Nimbus:	Reacted to "60M is already a s..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:05	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "still dont think thi..."

@Tim Beiko now I'm sold!
00:17:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	how does testing feel about RPC represented in our coverage plan for vetting a gas number?
00:17:21	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "Think of it as a J..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:23	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "@Tim Beiko now I'm s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "Think of it as a Jir..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:27	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "@Tim Beiko now I'm s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:27	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "@Tim Beiko now I'm..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:52	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "RPC is horizontall..."

Not for end-users running their own node and being self sovereign.
00:18:02	Barnabas:	50M gas requires 16GB+ machines
peerdas on its own without bumping the blob limit also requires 16GB+ ram machines. 

The two together might require 32GB ram machines. (even for devnets!, thats a HUGE increase in RAM requirements.
00:18:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	your wallet
00:18:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "60M is already a str..."

with which aspect of state growth being the biggest concern? disk requirements? db performance?
00:18:49	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "50M gas requires 1..."

Aren't we currently recommending 32gb for validators?
00:19:15	Barnabas:	Replying to "50M gas requires 16G..."

yes, thats the problem. With large state we might need to start recommending 64 or even 128gb ram.
00:19:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "60M is already a str..."

there are other bottlenecks like snap sync healing phase duration, but that degrades as a function of state change rate, not state growth rate
00:19:24	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "60M is already a str..."

maybe state sync is biggest concern, but I think the ceiling is > 60M
00:19:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "60M is already a str..."

are you specifically talking state, or overall space? history drop is buying us a lot of time
00:19:55	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	history expiry ;)
00:19:56	SanLeo:	As a home node runner, yes, disk space is the biggest problem.
00:20:02	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "history expiry ;)" with â•
00:20:06	Barnabas:	Reacted to "history expiry ;)" with â•
00:20:10	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "history expiry ;)" with â•
00:20:16	Barnabas:	Replying to "history expiry ;)"

we need to discuss gas limit bump together with history expiry
00:20:17	Francis Li:	also for reference, base geth archival node is 32T now, rpc from quicknode / alchemy runs well
00:20:24	Åukasz Rozmej:	Proper 4444 to the rescue!
00:20:25	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "we need to discuss g..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:30	Sophia Gold:	It will be quite some time until the state alone requires >2tb
00:20:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think in terms of process, this seems like an in-depth discussion that should happen on dedicated calls
00:20:33	Barnabas:	Replying to "history expiry ;)"

they go hand by hand.
00:20:35	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "Proper 4444 to the..." with ğŸ’¯
00:20:37	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "Proper 4444 to the r..." with ğŸ’¯
00:20:51	SanLeo:	Replying to "history expiry ;)"

will help, but only for so long
00:20:55	Tim Beiko:	I mean, this is pretty much the most important thing to discuss here, no?
00:21:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "It will be quite som..."

validators donâ€™t care about what the state size is, they care about what is the EL + BN together is.
00:21:22	SanLeo:	Replying to "history expiry ;)"

especially with a higher gas limit
00:21:25	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I think in terms of ..."

If we decide to make raising the gas limit the main thing for Fusaka, we should agree to it here ğŸ˜„
00:21:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "It will be quite som..."

RPC nodes do though
00:22:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think in terms of ..."

right. but the arguments seem to be less about whether we should try to do it, and more about the numbers
00:22:31	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "If we decide to make..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:32	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "It will be quite som..."

@Justin Florentine (Besu) but are those really bottlenecks in the next OOM?
00:22:34	Storm Slivkoff:	120GB/year is not a large amount with modern hardware and the recommended validator specs

We have many years of storage runway
00:22:36	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "I think in terms o..."

If I was king I would decrease the gas limit until state expiry was implemented.
00:22:43	Marc:	Reacted to "history expiry ;)" with â•
00:22:45	Gajinder:	Can we do just multi dim gas
00:22:52	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "120GB/year is not ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:22:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	but thats only at 60
00:23:02	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "Can we do just multi..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:06	SanLeo:	Reacted to "Can we do just multi..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:06	sacha:	Reacted to "I mean, this is pret..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we need to get to higher resolution on the individual bottlenecks. â€œstate growthâ€ is a bundle for several bottlenecks.

disk size
state db size
state tree depth

which of these are we most worried about here?
00:23:34	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "120GB/year is not ..."

Why do we care more about validators than end users?
00:23:37	Storm Slivkoff:	I think the real solution might be pricing IO operations based on tree branch depthâ€¦
00:23:42	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "we need to get to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:45	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	what do you mean by extremely slow? Could you share some numbers @MariusVanDerWijden?
00:23:47	CPerezz:	Replying to "we need to get to hi..."

We need to collect data for this. But db size isnâ€™t it.
00:24:08	Storm Slivkoff:	Replying to "120GB/year is not a ..."

Users are paramount. To support more end users we need more scale
00:24:20	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think the real sol..." with ğŸ¤”
00:24:21	SanLeo:	If we go this approach, I think only SSTORE for empty slots should be prone to the gas market. Exposing SSTORE that doesn't actually increase state size to the gas market is a bad choice imo.
00:24:42	Micah Zoltu:	I agree with Dankrad that we already have a bad state problem and we should decrease gas limit to address it.  ğŸ˜
00:24:46	Justin Florentine (Besu):	folks, we continue to make decisions about what our market wants based on subjective vibes.
00:24:55	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "folks, we continue t..." with ğŸ’¯
00:25:07	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Reacted to "120GB/year is not a â€¦" with ğŸ’¯
00:25:09	Gabriel Astieres:	Reacted to "folks, we continue..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:16	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "folks, we continue t..."

What data do you think we need to make this decision?
00:25:24	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "we need to get to hi..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "we need to get to hi..."

sounded like Marius said just now that for geth it is
00:25:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "folks, we continue t..."

a marketing department.
00:26:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "folks, we continue t..."

a proper marketing department studies their market, and produces hard data for decision making
00:26:18	Micah Zoltu:	Reminder: Stateless doesn't help RPC nodes at all.  Nor does ZK Clients.  Nor does PeerDAS.
00:26:28	CPerezz:	Replying to "we need to get to hi..."

Wonâ€™t be in the next 1-3 years. 
But if we go 60-100, we need due diligence. As we might get broken DBs sooner than expected.
00:26:37	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Reminder: Stateless ..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:41	SanLeo:	Reacted to "I think the real sol..." with ğŸ¤”
00:27:03	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "folks, we continue t..."

I'm in "don't give people what they want, give people what they need" camp ;)
00:27:21	Storm Slivkoff:	Performance testnets to the rescue!
00:27:28	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "Performance testiest..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:32	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "folks, we continue..."

What people need: Censorship resistance and self sovereighty options.
00:27:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "folks, we continue t..."

neato; we don't have data on either
00:27:40	Francis Li:	Replying to "we need to get to hiâ€¦"
I would say it's database choice, LSM based trees cannot provide reliable performance guarantees with compaction, state growth isn't quite the problem for read access, it's more about how well the underlying database architecture can support reliable and bound read time
00:27:49	Kolby ML:	Reacted to "Micah on ACD â¤ï¸
what..." with â¤ï¸
00:27:51	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "neato; we don't ha..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:04	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "Performance testne..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:22	felipe:	Reacted to "a proper marketing d..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:28:24	Dankrad Feist:	database engineering can be improved?
I really don't want to downplay that this is a hard engineering problem, but it really seems like this is a solvable problem (and has been solved by database and at least some clients)
00:29:07	CPerezz:	Replying to "database engineering..."

But you need data to know what your implementation can and cannot support. Such that you know what to improve.

Atm itâ€™s all speculation and some minimal benchmarks
00:29:07	Francis Li:	Reacted to "database engineeringâ€¦" with â•
00:29:39	Guillaume:	Replying to "120GB/year is not a ..." 

 You're ignoring the installed base, which is mostly 2TB. These are users we need to support, too.
00:29:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	right, to me gas limits are less about hard fork timing sprints, and more about continuous efforts.

but it still makes sense to account for that when doing hard fork scoping, so we understand that clients will already be busy with that scaling work
00:30:34	Storm Slivkoff:	Replying to "120GB/year is not a ..."

If you donâ€™t meet the recommended specs, itâ€™s recommended that you upgrade
00:30:37	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "right, to me gas lim..."

Yes, I think this is really important
00:30:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	can we come up with a way to vett that gas-limit to state growth is linear/proportional? it's reasonable, but it's an assumption.
00:30:57	MariusVanDerWijden:	@marek https://github.com/jsvisa/goleveldb-bench/blob/pebble/pebble-2.md RW goes up 10x in a 500GB set compared to a 100GB set
00:30:57	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "folks, we continue..."

Best way to do this is not marketting but bringing the actual users into ACD
00:31:14	Gary Schulte:	Replying to "Reminder: Stateless ..."

I appreciate the anti-capture perspective, but I donâ€™t think RPC is the use case to push with.  I am going to go out on a limb and say decentralized home stakers rpc usage is almost exclusively engine api
00:31:23	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "@marek https://git..."

(very prelimiar numbers)
00:31:32	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "can we come up wit..."

If gas price gets low enough, new use cases open up like backing up your MP3 collection to Ethereum.
00:31:41	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "@marek https://githu..." with â¤ï¸
00:31:41	Storm Slivkoff:	https://www.paradigm.xyz/2024/03/how-to-raise-the-gas-limit-1
00:31:48	SanLeo:	Replying to "can we come up with ..."

Thats a new use case? I've been doing it for years
00:31:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "right, to me gas lim..."

thatâ€™s also why I donâ€™t think these discussions e.g. around state growth are counter arguments: we only decide to put resources towards scaling, and then yes, responsible scaling means making sure any increase we recommend is actually sustainable
00:31:50	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	When do we expect to make final decisions on other CFIed EIPs?
00:31:59	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "Thats a new use ca..." with ğŸ‰
00:32:08	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "When do we expect to..."

Ideally on this call, max next one
00:32:15	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Replying to "@marek https://githu..."

thx!
00:32:24	sacha:	Reacted to "thatâ€™s also why I do..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:27	Guillaume:	Replying to "120GB/year is not a ..." 

 Ah, the windows 8 approach. That went well.
00:32:29	Storm Slivkoff:	Ideal test data would be a performance test net with 2x or 3x the state size of main net
00:32:36	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "When do we expect to..."

didn't see this in the agenda, thanks
00:32:44	MariusVanDerWijden:	I don't like SFI ' in gsomething that will only work if we add other changes into Fusaka
00:33:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "folks, we continue t..."

agree that might be better than status quo, disagree it's the best we can do
00:33:10	SanLeo:	Reacted to "I don't like SFI ' i..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:14	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I don't like SFI ' i..."

Iâ€™d SFI it in Fusaka, to be clear
00:33:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Billion gas blocks that just keep updating the same state slots in the Fartcoin contract.
00:33:54	MariusVanDerWijden:	We could just re-run binance chain transactions on our perfnet
00:34:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	regarding usage patterns: thatâ€™s why itâ€™s important we test both:
current usage mix, just higher throughput
individual worst case scenarios for different bottlenecks
00:34:05	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "Thats a new use case..." with ğŸ’¸
00:34:05	Francesco:	Why do we care that much about usage patterns? We can make storage as expensive as we think it needs to be
00:34:22	MariusVanDerWijden:	And then we'll see that syncing is impossible and running with a "normal" sized node is impossible
00:34:30	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Why do we care that ..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:59	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "We could just re-r..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "And then we'll see t..."

thatâ€™s why we obv should only ever actually raise the limit after validating itâ€™s safe
00:35:24	Tim Beiko:	http://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7938
00:35:32	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "http://eips.ethereum..."

Dankradâ€™s proposal ^
00:35:45	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "http://eips.ethereum..."

https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7938-exponential-gas-limit-increase-via-default-client-voting-behavior/23884/13?u=timbeiko
00:35:45	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "Why do we care tha..."

I would have far fewer problems with gas limit increases if we increased storage costs by a matching amount so state growth remained unchanged.
00:35:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "And then we'll see t..."

so that includes that we need to have a checklist of different things to validate on these perf devnets. sync with heavy state should be one of them obv
00:35:54	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "so that includes tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:22	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "https://ethereum-mag..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:27	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Why do we care that ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:38	Åukasz Rozmej:	"Prediction is very difficult, especially about the future."
00:36:42	Storm Slivkoff:	+1 for ambitious goals
00:36:52	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to ""Prediction is ver..." with ğŸ‘†
00:37:18	Francesco:	Replying to "[Full message cannot be displayed on this version]" 

 I don't really understand why, if the concern is disk space. You say RPCs already drop history so they don't benefit from history expiry, but on the other end that we should worry about home nodes, which would hugely benefit from history expiry
00:37:20	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "+1 for ambitious goaâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:37:28	Åukasz Rozmej:	I'm all for under-promise and over-deliver than the other way around to be honest.
00:37:36	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "I'm all for under-..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:37	CPerezz:	Reacted to "I'm all for under-pr..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:45	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "+1 for ambitious goa..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:49	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Why do we care that ..."

because bigger state dbs slow down
00:38:01	CPerezz:	Reacted to "+1 for ambitious goa..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:21	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Engineering normally means test first, measure then do the action.

That EIP is doing exactly the opposite
00:38:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	yes, haphazard
00:38:38	SanLeo:	Reacted to "Engineering normally..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:44	Francis Li:	If you aim for the moon, even if you miss you may hit a star ğŸ˜€
00:38:46	Storm Slivkoff:	Replying to "Engineering normally..."

The first gas EIP is conditional on testing
00:38:51	Bastin:	+1 Marius
00:38:59	James He:	Reacted to "+1 Marius" with ğŸ‘
00:39:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "If you aim for the m..."

or you keep flying forever into emptiness, more likely than hitting anything ğŸ˜„
00:39:12	James He:	Reacted to "Engineering normally..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we're at least not ready for review on ACD
00:39:16	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	how do we define the goals though?
00:39:23	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "If you aim for the..."

And likely run out of oxygen before you get there.  ğŸ˜‰
00:39:56	SanLeo:	Reacted to "If you aim for the m..." with â­
00:40:03	Sophia Gold:	Without an EIP how can we make geth update their config?
00:40:19	nixo:	Reacted to "or you keep flying f..." with ğŸ˜„
00:40:28	MariusVanDerWijden:	Geth will update their config as soon as we thing its safe to do so
00:40:33	terence:	isnâ€™t that the point of an â€œinformationalâ€ EIP?
00:40:57	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

Do you think we can come to consensus across clients about what â€œsafeâ€ is?
00:41:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Question:
Should we consider having a small repricing EIP in Fusaka?

Poll all the clients in the next 2 weeks what specifically they are most worried about to go to say 100M gas, and then just make those specific things more expensive in Fusaka?

so e.g. make state growth 2x more expensive.

because otherwise next opportunity is Glamsterdam, so scaling might be blocked at that lower safe limit for the next 12 months or longer
00:41:11	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "Geth will update t..."

I think so
00:41:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

we did for 36
00:41:17	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think so" with ğŸ‘
00:41:18	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "we did for 36" with ğŸ‘
00:41:23	SanLeo:	Reacted to "Question:
Should we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:26	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

Then thatâ€™s basically what the first EIP says ğŸ˜„
00:41:42	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Question:
Should we ..."

I think we should be OK adding those much farther in the process
00:41:46	Dankrad Feist:	if we find a roadblock we can delay the schedule
00:41:47	Bastin:	Replying to "how do we define the..."

run on a testnet. 
monitor stats like bandwith, cpu, ...
you also have the hardware requirements to check against.
00:41:52	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "if we find a roadblo..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:53	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "Geth will update t..."

I was being a little cheeky since geth didn't have 36m until long after mainnet
00:42:03	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "Question:
Should w..."

This will take longer than two weeks, but yes
00:42:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Question:
Should we ..."

â€œmuch fartherâ€ we are already weeks after the PFI deadline though, right?
00:42:05	Gary Schulte:	A balanced middle ground between ambition and reckless is to target gas limit informed by a specific predictable scaling algorithm and commit after testing.
00:42:12	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

is geths gas limit not user-definable?
00:42:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Question:
Should we ..."

but yes, if we think they are easy to add late, happy with more than 2 weeks
00:42:29	Isidoros Passadis:	Reacted to "Question:
Should we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:32	Micah Zoltu:	We could 10x the gas limit in Fusaka and also 10x all costs, then write EIPs to reduce costs from there.  I think someone in Ethereum R&D Discord suggested something like this.
00:42:35	Luis Pinto | Besu:	So if thereâ€™s a way out whatâ€™s the difference from considering it in ACD calls going forward if itâ€™s sustainable?
00:43:10	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "We could 10x the g..."

Problem with this is maybe the 21.000 const. You can't really change that
00:43:13	Storm Slivkoff:	Replying to "if we find a roadblo..."

Enshrining goals in an inspirational publicly visible way
00:43:19	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Question:
Should we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	wait in 3 months? wonâ€™t we already have Fusaka client releases by then? :-)
00:43:26	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "Geth will update t..."

We're talking about the default config
00:43:28	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "if we find a roadbloâ€¦"
Because thereâ€™s a really strong default to strive to reach the next goal
00:43:36	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "We could 10x the g..."

Why not?  Too many people have it hard coded in their tools?
00:43:51	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "We could 10x the g..."

yes
00:43:59	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Question:
Should we ..."

Did my comment answer it @Ansgar Dietrichs ?
00:44:07	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "yes" with ğŸ˜¢
00:44:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

thats my point. you don't have to convince the geth team to endorse a new limit, you can convince the operators.
00:44:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We could 10x the gas..."

I think we decided we will be more willing to break hard coded gas price assumptions going forward
00:44:26	sacha:	Reacted to "Because thereâ€™s a re..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We could 10x the gas..."

we have been telling people for the better part of a decade now that such assumptions are unsafe
00:44:39	sacha:	Reacted to "Enshrining goals in ..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:41	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "we have been telling..." with ğŸ’¯
00:44:43	Csaba Kiraly:	My preference is to do the research, and then write informative and preferably widely agreed posts about expected scaling achieved by this and that change, rather than setting a goal timeline.
00:44:46	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

No, but itâ€™s a nice signal if ACD can actually recommend a new default each fork
00:45:01	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "No, but itâ€™s a ni..." with ğŸ’¯
00:45:03	Isidoros Passadis:	Reacted to "My preference is to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:14	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "wait in 3 months? ..."

Thats my point, we need time to find and fix the worst cases and to propose and ship eips for them before Fusaka
00:45:26	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "wait in 3 months? ..."

Otherwise we will delay fusaka for this
00:45:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	@Tim Beiko maybe some context how gas increase is being tested to be safe?
00:45:35	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "No, but itâ€™s a nice ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:45:40	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Question:
Should we ..."

yes, I was only surprised that you said 3 months - I think even a small repricing will need some testing work, and so it canâ€™t come *too late* into the fork lifetime
00:45:47	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "@Tim Beiko maybe s..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:53	Mario Vega:	We should at least make a list of the concerns on gas increase so we can start to think how to test it
00:45:57	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "We should at least m..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:06	Sophia Gold:	Kamil is on holiday I believe
00:46:14	Bastin:	Reacted to "We should at least m..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Geth will update the..."

right. so users have options - campaign across the community to raise a limit on their own, or CONVINCE acd to raise it. that is marius's point, if you rely on us to vet something as safe, you have to trust us and give us the time to do so
00:46:16	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Question:
Should we ..."

Yeah, I think for Fusaka we should base it on PeerDAS progress
00:46:33	Storm Slivkoff:	Performance test nets with 2x or 3x the state size of main net will clear up almost all uncertainty here
00:46:36	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "we have been telli..." with ğŸ’¯
00:46:43	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Performance test net..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:44	Tim Beiko:	Yes, this is exactly what I feel the first Info EIP suggests
00:46:52	CPerezz:	Replying to "Performance test net..."

Thatâ€™s one of my agenda items (hope we get there)
00:47:03	Jihoon:	Reacted to "Performance test net..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:06	felipe:	Reacted to "Performance test net..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:09	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "Performance test n..."

It won't address the state growth concerns of RPC nodes.
00:47:10	CPerezz:	Replying to "Performance test net..."

But 100% agree.
00:47:32	CPerezz:	Replying to "Performance test net..."

@Micah Zoltu But ill clear a lot of other concerns like DBs breaking or IO regression in performance
00:47:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	given that scaling is being elevated to the main EL priority going forward, I think we need to 10x our sophistication around how we validate throughput levels.

all the bottlenecks we track, all the different load scenarios we run, etc.
00:48:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "given that scaling i..."

Iâ€™d be curious what people think the best way is to make progress on ramping up there
00:48:51	Justin Florentine (Besu):	and we should solicit tests from community - let them define the aspects of the network they want to protect in the face of the gas increase
00:48:56	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "and we should solici..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:17	felix (eest):	Reacted to "We should at least..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	â€œsuggest some repricingâ€ - just reiterating that these have much much longer lead times than out-of-consensus client implementation improvements
00:49:58	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "â€œsuggest some repric..."

Why though?
00:50:20	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "We should at least m..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:29	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "â€œsuggest some rep..."

I think because coordination is hard.
00:50:31	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "and we should solici..."

not a big fan of the community focused approaches. Give community what it needs and not what it wants.
00:50:37	Mario Vega:	I think that CPU testing and CPU edge cases could be done in EEST because they don't need a huge state, so the idea would be that if you have such cases in your unit test set, it would be great we port them to EEST where all clients can consume them
00:51:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	our ModExp repricing EIP is based on this scaling testing by the way
00:51:19	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "our ModExp repricing..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:21	SanLeo:	Replying to "â€œsuggest some repric..."

Is it a larger amount of coordination than any other hardfork?
00:51:38	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "our ModExp reprici..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:48	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "our ModExp repricing..."

yeah, we should start with SFIing, EIP-7823 and EIP-7883
00:52:01	Åukasz Rozmej:	@MariusVanDerWijden that EIP is not for you, it is for public (community)
00:52:08	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "@MariusVanDerWijden ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:11	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "@MariusVanDerWijden ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:52:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "â€œsuggest some repric..."

@Tim Beiko what makes you think that repricing changes are easy to add much later into the process?

I think the implementation and testing overhead they come with is similar to other small-to-medium sized features
00:52:20	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "@MariusVanDerWijden ..."

I think itâ€™s for both though
00:52:23	Francis Li:	Replying to "given that scaling iâ€¦"
talk to L2s, I'd imagine they've experienced all sorts of limitations from scaling up gas limit or reducing block times already
00:52:40	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	I donâ€™t have a good grasp on what we can raise or not but my 2 cents is Iâ€™d much prefer gradual raise (best option - block by block, though it will require cleint change)

if we hit problems we likely hit small problems first and on a minority of clients/hardware
00:52:53	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "talk to L2s, I'd ima..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:01	Bastin:	add practical actionable steps and testing checks to the EIP. 
Create a concrete gas limit increase plan. 
Then discuss SFI.
00:53:16	Micah Zoltu:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a go..."

Changing the default will achieve that.
00:53:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "given that scaling i..."

but who will go speak to the L2s? whatâ€™s the structure here? who is leading these efforts? etc
00:53:37	Ben Adams:	Dankrand's potentially needs work on mechanism; so would be against that right now; but for the more general one
00:53:37	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

I think he implies an even smoother curve
00:53:39	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

@Vasiliy Shapovalov one concern is that some bottlenecks donâ€™t show up linearly
00:53:44	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

e.g. the 10MB limit
00:53:49	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Dankrand's potential..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:57	MariusVanDerWijden:	Reacted to "Dankrand's potenti..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:22	Isidoros Passadis:	Reacted to "e.g. the 10MB limit" with ğŸ‘
00:54:39	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "e.g. the 10MB limit" with ğŸ‘
00:54:51	Isidoros Passadis:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

yeah i'm unsure about this tbh. I think we hit some critical threshold here and 1-2 clients (or even worse, all) shit the bed and all of a sudden we're not finalizing
00:55:09	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

yeah Iâ€™m talking like over 2 weeks or months
00:55:24	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

Ah okay!
00:55:44	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

one other options would be canary raise
00:55:49	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

Simplest would likely be to adjust the update step?
00:55:51	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

e.g. raise on 1 slot of epoch
00:55:55	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Simplest would likel..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:11	Isidoros Passadis:	+1 for additional collab around "how do we define and assess safety as a community" (research + eth/client devops + node ops)
00:56:12	Micah Zoltu:	We can resolve that with @lightclient's EIP from long ago that made the gas limit capped, but validators could lower it.
00:56:22	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

e.g. the 10MB limit
would imo show up linearly
00:56:30	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

fullest blocks would be rare
00:56:45	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

don't worry there are dedicated people testing it, right now
00:56:50	Isidoros Passadis:	Reacted to "don't worry there ar..." with ğŸ‘€
00:57:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	should the monday testing call alternate between scaling and â€œspecific fork feature workâ€?
00:57:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "should the monday te..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:57:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Dankrand's potential..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:16	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

testing is great but thereâ€™s no second mainnet, really
00:57:22	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "+1 for additional co..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:49	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

some stuff can break besides the clients - relays, builders, explorers etc
00:58:02	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "should the monday teâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:58:04	Barnabas:	Replying to "should the monday te..."

corporate needs you to find the differences between these two things.
00:58:05	Justin Florentine (Besu):	anyone know what Reth thinks?
00:58:15	sacha:	Reacted to "corporate needs you ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:58:24	Roman:	we are supportive of including it
00:58:46	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "we are supportive ..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "should the monday te..."

yes itâ€™s probably a bad proposal, I am not a frequent monday call participant
00:59:01	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7934
00:59:01	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Reacted to "corporate needs you ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:02	sacha:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t have a good ..." with â¤ï¸
00:59:06	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

if you test worst edge-cases than mainnet average case is lighter than those
00:59:25	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

we can always go back to clients building blocks :D
00:59:35	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

We will test explorers
00:59:50	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

if builders can't keep up they are crap :D
01:00:09	felix (eest):	Reacted to "corporate needs yo..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:00:17	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	Replying to "I donâ€™t have a good ..."

testing is also not mutually exclusive with very gradual raise/canary raises
01:00:18	Mikel Cortes:	keep in mind that blocks are compressed before sent with snappy
01:00:21	lightclient:	is this for fusaka?
01:00:48	lightclient:	when will we be done specifying fusaka?
01:01:03	Csaba Kiraly:	At the EL side, we can limit the max blobs that can go into a single Type 3 transaction.
01:01:07	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "when will we be done..."

Again, ideally today modulo â€œblockers to increase the gas limitâ€
01:01:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I donâ€™t love it from a â€œprincipled fee market designâ€ point of view, but I think it is a reasonable pragmatic choice for Fusaka
01:01:13	PaweÅ‚ Bylica:	OMG, Can't wait for tests for this EIP :)
01:01:19	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "when will we be do..."

3 days before the fork, as usual
01:01:25	lightclient:	I think we should try to SFI the contract size increase then
01:01:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I donâ€™t love it from..."

we can always replace it with something more principled in a later fork, if it ever becomes a priority to do so
01:01:39	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think we should tr..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:43	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "we can always replac..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:49	Vasiliy Shapovalov:	if we can for say 50% of bugs limit the impact from chain stop/losing finality to losing finality/missing 2 slots why wouldnâ€™t we do that
01:01:53	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "OMG, Can't wait for ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:01:56	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "OMG, Can't wait for ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:02:12	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "when will we be done..."

@lightclient yes, once we sort out the gas stuff, we should cover the last CFIâ€™d EIPs
01:02:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	very interesting, so you're out of consensus in isolation
01:02:14	Sophia Gold:	Is this necessary if we also add a calldata gas dimension?
01:02:37	Micah Zoltu:	So currently you'll miss your slot if you build 10MB block, because everyone will de-peer you.
01:02:39	SanLeo:	Reacted to "I think we should tr..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:53	Micah Zoltu:	Reacted to "very interesting, ..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:02	Tim Beiko:	Other CFIâ€™d Fusaka EIPs:

Â Considered for Inclusion
EIP-5920: PAY opcode
RIP-7212: Precompile for secp256r1 Curve Support
EIP-7762: Increase MIN_BASE_FEE_PER_BLOB_GAS
EIP-7823: Set upper bounds for MODEXP
EIP-7825: Transaction Gas Limit Cap
EIP-7883: ModExp Gas Cost Increase
EIP-7907: Meter Contract Code Size And Increase Limit
EIP-7917: Deterministic proposer lookahead
EIP-7918: Blob base fee bounded by execution cost

We should determine if thereâ€™s anything else we want to SFI today, especially for  fusaka-devnet-1 
01:03:09	Micah Zoltu:	Seems like an obviously good EIP and should be included.  Explicit constraints are good.
01:03:40	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "Other CFIâ€™d Fusak..."

7212?
01:03:45	Csaba Kiraly:	Changing these limits are really easy at the network level. What is more interesting are the techniques we introduce to handle big messages more efficiently (erasure coding, etc.)
01:03:53	SanLeo:	Replying to "Other CFIâ€™d Fusaka E..."

5920 would be great
01:03:59	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i like it. seems prudent, easy to implement.
01:06:07	Åukasz Rozmej:	Nethermind for it
01:06:09	Jason Carver:	Does increasing the gas limit and adding a distinct block size limit make it more awkward to optimize when building a block?
01:06:09	MariusVanDerWijden:	yep agree, should include
01:06:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	besu too
01:06:15	lightclient:	Replying to "Other CFIâ€™d Fusaka E..."

7907
01:06:18	MariusVanDerWijden:	Replying to "Does increasing th..."

yes
01:06:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Does increasing the ..."

yes, adds a dimension to optimize over
01:07:03	MariusVanDerWijden:	peerdas
01:07:16	Ben Adams:	One of the two blob fees
01:07:16	MariusVanDerWijden:	modexp repricing
01:07:23	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "modexp repricing" with ğŸ‘
01:07:23	Marc:	Replying to "Other CFIâ€™d Fusaka Eâ€¦"
7883
01:07:24	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Other CFIâ€™d Fusaka E..."

We cannot SFI without tests btw
01:07:24	Anders Elowsson:	Do you have na
01:07:28	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "modexp repricing" with ğŸ’¯
01:07:32	Anders Elowsson:	Any questions on EIP7918?
01:07:40	SanLeo:	Replying to "Does increasing the ..."

Yes, but as Ben said, there's no reasonable situation where you'd hit the limit, even at 110MGas
01:07:48	Marc:	Reacted to "modexp repricing" with ğŸ‘
01:07:57	Justin Florentine (Besu):	besu was fine with modexp when last reviewed
01:08:01	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "besu was fine with m..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:04	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	I think we SFI 7212, 7823, 7883, 7917, 7918, 7934
01:08:10	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "One of the two blob ..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:29	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think we want 7212..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "One of the two blob ..."

we looked into it some more from the research side, preliminary consensus is that we all prefer Andersâ€™ EIP (7918)
01:08:59	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "we looked into it so..." with â¤ï¸
01:09:01	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "we looked into it so..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:04	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "we looked into it so..." with â•
01:09:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "One of the two blob ..."

small caveat: there were still some very small adjustments we might want to make. what would be the timeline until the spec at least for the next devnet would have to be final?
01:09:28	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "we looked into it so..." with â¤ï¸
01:09:32	MariusVanDerWijden:	worst case at 60m for geth would be ~3 seconds
01:09:49	MariusVanDerWijden:	both would be nice
01:09:50	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "I think we SFI 7212,..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:02	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "worst case at 60m fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:08	Tim Beiko:	@Mario Vega do you know which actually have tests vs. Not?
01:10:41	Mario Vega:	Replying to "@Mario Vega do you k..."

Only Pay opcode has a PR at the moment
01:10:48	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Only Pay opcode has ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:11:34	lightclient:	Reacted to "Only Pay opcode has ..." with ğŸ˜¦
01:11:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	I see testcases in 7883
01:12:04	lightclient:	itâ€™s almost like we need another stage between CFI and SFI lol
01:12:11	lightclient:	pre-SFIâ€™d
01:12:11	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "itâ€™s almost like we ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:12:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	or just.... have discipline?
01:12:17	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "pre-SFIâ€™d" with â•
01:12:23	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "or just.... have dis..." with â•
01:12:29	lightclient:	whatâ€™s that
01:12:43	Tim Beiko:	The difference between getting right on the first shot vs. Having to iterate towards it
01:12:55	sacha:	Reacted to "we looked into it so..." with â¤ï¸
01:13:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	isn't writing the tests part of "consider" ing?
01:13:25	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "or just.... have dis..."

nah, i prefer a new acronym
01:13:43	lightclient:	i think we should softly agree on what we want to SFI here, do the first devnet with just peer das, then plan on the next devnet having the SFIâ€™d eips
01:13:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	or just allow CFI'd into devnet?
01:14:00	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "i think we should so..." with â•
01:14:03	lightclient:	i think SFI in devnet is good
01:14:05	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "i think we should so..." with â•
01:14:30	felix (eest):	Reacted to "i think we should ..." with â•
01:14:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	ok, so SFI'd but can't get on devnet till tests exists and pass?
01:14:43	Ben Adams:	modexp is highest priority for higher gasblock size would be next priority for higher gas
01:14:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	besu is pending
01:15:07	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "ok, so SFI'd but can..."

Makes sense, waste of resources
01:15:09	Marc:	Reacted to "modexp is highest prâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¾
01:15:17	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "i think we should so..." with â•
01:15:18	lightclient:	Reacted to "ok, so SFI'd but can..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:06	lightclient:	7212, mod exp eips, 7907
01:16:24	lightclient:	most of the CFIâ€™d eips are little protocol changes that users donâ€™t care about
01:16:28	lightclient:	donâ€™t need to rerun pectra
01:16:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	can someone write that down?
01:16:36	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I think we SFI 7212,..."

this is my personal list.
01:16:50	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I think we SFI 7212,..."

not sure nethermind agree
01:17:17	Ben Adams:	ACDT?
01:17:24	Roman:	Reacted to "ACDT?" with ğŸ‘
01:17:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	or even do it async
01:17:28	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "ACDT?" with ğŸ‘
01:17:31	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "ACDT?" with ğŸ‘
01:17:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it's just a bookkeeping problem
01:17:40	Roman:	next Mon sounds great
01:17:45	nixo:	Reacted to "ACDT?" with ğŸ‘
01:18:08	Som - Erigon:	Monday
01:18:16	Sophia Gold:	7212 is the one users constantly ask for
01:18:48	Ben Adams:	EIP-7934 is size https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7934
01:19:05	Ben Adams:	7938 is expontial gas increase :)
01:19:10	Mario Vega:	We can share a cost of testing doc maybe tomorrow, it could help clients decide
01:19:22	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we're generally open to everything CFId
01:19:39	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "we're generally open..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:53	Marc:	how about modexp EIPs in first devnet? seems to be wide consensus on these eips and they help with gas limit scaling
01:20:24	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Why would we CFI something and not consider it for SFI?
01:20:27	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "donâ€™t need to rer..." with ğŸ’¯
01:20:48	MariusVanDerWijden:	Otherwise theres no need for a fusaka devnet, only peerdas we already done many times
01:20:50	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	For smart contract devs I would also really want to get PAY in
01:21:00	SanLeo:	Reacted to "For smart contract d..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:12	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "For smart contract d..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:19	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "For smart contract d..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:23	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Antwoord verzenden naar "For smart contract..."

Will also take upon me to write tests for it
01:21:41	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Antwoord verzenden naar "For smart contract..."

I have a PR open which I want reviewed for PAY https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9590
01:21:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	this was a criterium for CFI, not for SFI
01:22:00	Åukasz Rozmej:	Those micro-EIPs on EL won't delay PeerDAS
01:22:30	Anders Elowsson:	Please get in touch if you have any questions on EIP-7918
01:22:34	Justin Florentine (Besu):	ok, so whatever is on CFI'd and has tests, into the 2nd devnet after a PeerDAS one?
01:22:36	SanLeo:	Replying to "For smart contract d..."

@jochem-brouwer (EthJS)Â I'd like to help on PAY, maybe you can DM me on discord and we can chat?
01:22:54	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Antwoord verzenden naar "For smart contract..."

Yup will do, whats your handle?
01:23:02	SanLeo:	Replying to "For smart contract d..."

@sanleo
01:23:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	fair. some things that are CFI'd need specs
01:23:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think everything we CFIâ€™d so far is â€œsmall enough we are okay with adding to fusakaâ€ with the caveat of â€œif one of the less important ones causes delays, itâ€™s outâ€.

so now we are only talking about ordering of when to bring them over into the main devnets
01:24:02	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I think everything w..." with â•
01:24:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	modexp(2) + pay?
01:24:27	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "I think everything w..." with â•
01:24:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	agreed (with what Tim just said). but now is not the time anymore for just general â€œis this scope small enough to not delay peerdasâ€ conversations
01:24:52	Isidoros Passadis:	Reacted to "I think everything w..." with ğŸ‘€
01:25:34	Francis Li:	Reacted to "I think everything wâ€¦" with â•
01:25:37	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	We will get an ordered list on Monday
01:25:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	love it
01:26:51	Justin Florentine (Besu):	CFI'd list from this https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7607  plus EIP-7934
01:27:38	Sophia Gold:	Jumps are actually much cheaper than they're currently priced (proposed to reprice to 1 in glamsterdam) so I'm not sure this is necessary at all
01:27:39	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "CFI'd list from this..." with â¤ï¸
01:27:51	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "CFI'd list from this..." with â¤ï¸
01:27:57	Guillaume:	Removing static jumps is older than ethereum itself
01:28:22	nixo:	fyi thereâ€™s interest in the yt chat about getting a quick update on history expiry, think barnabas also added to to the agenda at the beginning of the call. would be nice if we have time to cover briefly
01:28:25	lightclient:	i think adding something more along the lines of 2315 for static jumps makes more sense
01:28:38	lightclient:	itâ€™s not broken, people use ethereum all the time ğŸ™‚
01:28:47	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "fyi thereâ€™s inter..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:48	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "itâ€™s not broken, peo..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:51	Justin Florentine (Besu):	need an EVM roadmap working group
01:28:54	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "itâ€™s not broken, ..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:08	Storm Slivkoff:	Reacted to "itâ€™s not broken, peo..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:15	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "need an EVM roadmap ..." with â•
01:29:16	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "need an EVM roadmap ..." with â•
01:29:27	Sophia Gold:	Much more worthwhile to add all the SWAPs and DUPs imo
01:29:40	lightclient:	Reacted to "Much more worthwhile..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:45	SanLeo:	Reacted to "Much more worthwhile..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:46	Åukasz Rozmej:	we need proper agreenment if there will be EVM in the future (or replaced by something else)
01:29:51	Isidoros Passadis:	Reacted to "need an EVM roadmap ..." with â•
01:29:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "we need proper agree..." with â•
01:29:58	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "we need proper agree..." with â•
01:29:58	lightclient:	Reacted to "we need proper agree..." with â•
01:30:07	Storm Slivkoff:	completely agree with Marius
01:30:17	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "completely agree wit..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:21	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "we need proper agree..."

that will take a long time, we should not base short term decisions on the potential of a replacement
01:30:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "need an EVM roadmap ..."

I am optimistic that will happen as a consequence of EOF.

but not for Fusaka, but for a coherent plan for 2026 and beyond
01:30:24	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "we need proper agree..."

I'm leaning pro-EVM, but I think I might be missing some perspective
01:30:27	Luis Pinto | Besu:	But I agree with Greg that itâ€™s hurting adoption
01:30:41	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "we need proper agr..."

I think it's too early to know but we will discuss a little in Berlin
01:30:46	lightclient:	Replying to "But I agree with Gre..."

hurting what adoption?
01:30:51	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "I think it's too ear..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:54	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "need an EVM roadmap ..."

just need to figure out whether the best format is EF-led or acd-led
01:31:11	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "But I agree with Gre..."

Limits what you can do in ethereum and language evolution
01:31:24	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "need an EVM roadmap ..."

i appreciate that being said out loud, thank you!
01:31:26	lightclient:	Replying to "But I agree with Gre..."

how? languages donâ€™t need to use dynamic jumps
01:31:46	lightclient:	Replying to "But I agree with Gre..."

you can replicate static jumps by ensuring push op before every jump
01:31:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "i appreciate that be..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "need an EVM roadmap ..."

EOF makes transpiling/compiling lot easier, that is my main benefit from it.
01:32:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "But I agree with Gre..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:49	Storm Slivkoff:	Itâ€™s not clear to me that a working group would actually solve the fundamental roadmap issues of uncertainty and disagreement
01:32:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	this conversation should happen async
01:33:13	sacha:	Reacted to "this conversation sh..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:14	Barnabas:	Iâ€™m happy to work on eof-devnets btw.
01:33:32	Barnabas:	so if there are adjustments to be made, it still can be tested there.
01:33:58	Tim Beiko:	https://hackmd.io/ob66NuW9QBORHLz7emhSCw?both
01:34:04	Tim Beiko:	https://hackmd.io/D12VBHdMSU6y_vcqWcJV_g?both
01:34:28	Ansgar Dietrichs:	is this about the consequences of state growth, or state size?

because they are subtly different
01:34:54	CPerezz:	https://hackmd.io/ob66NuW9QBORHLz7emhSCw?both
01:34:59	CPerezz:	https://hackmd.io/D12VBHdMSU6y_vcqWcJV_g?both
01:35:04	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "https://hackmd.io/D1..." with â¤ï¸
01:35:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "is this about the co..."

can have both networks with large state, but low rate of continued growth.

or, high growth rate, but for now still small state.

or ofc both large state and continued large growth
01:35:33	Trent:	I can make a final mention for Pectra Pages
01:36:22	Sophia Gold:	history expiry update?
01:36:26	Tim Beiko:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/community-consensus-fork-headliners-acd-working-groups/24088
01:36:43	nixo:	Reacted to "history expiry updat..." with â•
01:36:44	Tim Beiko:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/for-an-acd-platform/24098
01:36:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	2nd research call is next wednesday, ethereum-o-clock

topic will be the short-term EL scaling features, with focus on Glamsterdam
01:37:00	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7636
01:37:07	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "2nd research call is..." with ğŸš€
01:37:22	Roman:	Reacted to "2nd research call is..." with ğŸš€
01:37:25	Tim Beiko:	Anything else ğŸ˜„ ?
01:37:42	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "2nd research call ..." with ğŸš€
01:37:46	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "2nd research call is..." with ğŸš€
01:37:49	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "2nd research call is..." with ğŸš€
01:38:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "2nd research call is..."

Iâ€™ll put a link with details into the acd channel once we have them
01:38:12	Tim Beiko:	Anyone for history expiry?
01:38:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "2nd research call is..."

call is also on the protocol calendar
01:38:50	Tim Beiko:	To re-iterate: pre-ACDT, please share your sorted list of the CFI EIPs, weâ€™ll finalize  fusaka-devnet1` scope there ğŸ˜„
01:39:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-05-08 at 17.32.51(1).png"

time to close this tab it seems
01:39:10	Trent:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-05-08 at 17.32.51(1).png" with ğŸ˜
01:39:16	Trent:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-05-08 at 17.32.51(1).png"

You can do ittttt
01:39:17	lightclient:	what is going on with history expiry?
01:39:19	nixo:	Reacted to "time to close this t..." with ğŸ˜­
01:39:21	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "what is going on w..." with ğŸ’¯
01:39:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	devnet deployment priority
01:39:50	Trent:	Yay pectra!! ğŸ¦’
