WEBVTT

1
00:06:35.850 --> 00:06:42.610
Pooja Ranjan: Mario, Akash is having some internet issues, so I'll be helping with streaming today. Just let me know whenever you are ready.

2
00:06:43.630 --> 00:06:44.900
Mario Vega: Okay, thank you so much.

3
00:09:57.700 --> 00:10:04.020
Mario Vega: Hey everyone, we just give a couple more minutes, for more people to join, and we can get started.

4
00:11:10.760 --> 00:11:14.680
Mario Vega: I think we have enough people now. Can we get started?

5
00:11:16.920 --> 00:11:17.900
Pooja Ranjan: We are life.

6
00:11:18.620 --> 00:11:19.999
Mario Vega: Excellent, thank you so much.

7
00:11:20.110 --> 00:11:34.649
Mario Vega: Welcome, everyone, to ACDT number 67. Today is January 26th of 2026. Yeah, let's get just started. I shared the agenda in the chat.

8
00:11:34.830 --> 00:11:36.449
Mario Vega: For everyone to see.

9
00:11:36.620 --> 00:11:42.769
Mario Vega: First of all, we can get started with the glamsterum, I think it's the most pressing topic at the moment.

10
00:11:42.910 --> 00:11:45.529
Mario Vega: Yeah, and for…

11
00:11:45.660 --> 00:11:55.389
Mario Vega: for the first subtopic is… it would be more than the two, updates. The first thing that I would like to share is that we shared a…

12
00:11:55.780 --> 00:12:05.450
Mario Vega: reference spec test release last week, and I'll link it in the chat for everyone to see. It basically contains all of the EIPs.

13
00:12:05.850 --> 00:12:11.079
Mario Vega: That, are supposed to be included in the 2 for local access list.

14
00:12:11.180 --> 00:12:26.710
Mario Vega: I don't think there's much to say to it, unless, other than people should start just trying to use it, test their clients' implementations, and please raise any issues that you find in the Eat R&D Discord, so we can take a look.

15
00:12:26.790 --> 00:12:35.540
Mario Vega: Or if there are any, any concerns, or any other thing, please just, just raise it so we can, we can, try to fix it.

16
00:12:35.870 --> 00:12:42.639
Mario Vega: Alright, next to that, I think… Let me see…

17
00:12:43.330 --> 00:12:52.340
Mario Vega: Stefan, are you, Nicole? I think you shared a very nicely comprehensive update in the… in the…

18
00:12:53.210 --> 00:12:58.410
Mario Vega: in the issue, would you like to, get started on the… on this update?

19
00:12:59.060 --> 00:13:11.440
Stefan Starflinger: Yeah, sure. So, just in general, I asked Tony if we could maybe push, the discussions on BAL open PRs, and I just listed the open PRs that we still have.

20
00:13:11.620 --> 00:13:19.420
Stefan Starflinger: And then, as a second point, I kind of went over to see how far clients currently are, and I created a nice

21
00:13:19.490 --> 00:13:32.159
Stefan Starflinger: table. The main blocker is the, slot num, EIP, so right now, most clients, don't make it through the gloss fork, because they don't have the, engine methods.

22
00:13:32.230 --> 00:13:51.040
Stefan Starflinger: So it would be great if clients could merge those, or maybe give an update on that as well in a bit. And then, also, another point is that it would be great to have the flags to enable and disable the block-level access list optimizations.

23
00:13:51.130 --> 00:13:56.120
Stefan Starflinger: That would really, unblock some of the repricing, efforts.

24
00:13:56.380 --> 00:14:11.249
Stefan Starflinger: Then I would ask for a quick update on the, kind of testing side, how the block-level access is incorporated in the tests to debug that. I think it would be nice for everyone to kind of get an update there.

25
00:14:11.410 --> 00:14:15.470
Stefan Starflinger: And that we should, go, like.

26
00:14:15.640 --> 00:14:27.120
Stefan Starflinger: try and get, Baldevna 2 running on Wednesday. So yeah, first of all, I would hand over to Tony, maybe to talk over, if you're here on the call, go over the individual open PRs.

27
00:14:31.510 --> 00:14:47.510
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, let me quickly, pull it up, because I don't have it open right now. If I remember correctly, then for Ball Defnet 2, we wanted to have the JSON RPC methods implemented into clients, just to allow us, to easier debug stuff.

28
00:14:47.990 --> 00:14:57.090
Toni Wahrstätter: Then there was an engine API method. I think we got to consensus in the PR there.

29
00:14:57.230 --> 00:15:10.549
Toni Wahrstätter: basically why we are having those engine API methods. I think we wanted to discuss that on… in more depth on the… on Wednesday's block of Access List Breakout Call, so I won't go very deep into that one.

30
00:15:10.910 --> 00:15:13.240
Toni Wahrstätter: but, yeah.

31
00:15:13.880 --> 00:15:18.259
Toni Wahrstätter: Other than that, there's not really… Much more.

32
00:15:18.840 --> 00:15:23.719
Toni Wahrstätter: Maybe, if Felipe is on the call, he might… might have something to add there.

33
00:15:23.870 --> 00:15:25.629
Toni Wahrstätter: With regards to the testing.

34
00:15:29.460 --> 00:15:32.279
felipe: Yeah, for… for now, we,

35
00:15:32.660 --> 00:15:38.980
felipe: The block level access list, used to be on the blocked object for blockchain.

36
00:15:39.300 --> 00:15:49.470
felipe: Trusts… And since we removed them from the block body, they actually, in the…

37
00:15:49.820 --> 00:15:55.259
felipe: 3.0.1 release weren't in the test vectors anymore.

38
00:15:55.900 --> 00:16:02.089
felipe: But that block body in tests, also includes an RLP field,

39
00:16:02.420 --> 00:16:07.599
felipe: So it's not really representative of a full block body, it just has block information in it.

40
00:16:08.650 --> 00:16:18.960
felipe: What we did in the last release is we just put the block-level access list back in these block objects in the blockchain test, so they are there in this 4.0.0 release.

41
00:16:19.780 --> 00:16:22.370
felipe: Just as they were in the previous file releases.

42
00:16:27.050 --> 00:16:35.839
Mario Vega: Thank you. So just one comment regarding these open PRs, either Tony or Felipe or Stefan, is any of those…

43
00:16:36.050 --> 00:16:37.920
Mario Vega: Blocking for .NET2?

44
00:16:39.580 --> 00:16:50.989
Stefan Starflinger: Not any of these, necessarily, but it generally would be good to get them merged. So I thought maybe we could speed it up, because it seems like

45
00:16:51.320 --> 00:16:57.769
Stefan Starflinger: or maybe not all of them, but some of them shouldn't need too much discussion. For example, the one on the…

46
00:16:59.520 --> 00:17:12.320
Stefan Starflinger: execution APIs, adding slot number to fork choice update, I think that one would be great to merge, because that's really a blocker, for getting past the gloss fork for this EIP.

47
00:17:15.810 --> 00:17:16.240
Mario Vega: which number.

48
00:17:16.240 --> 00:17:16.810
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, maybe…

49
00:17:18.389 --> 00:17:20.839
Stefan Starflinger: I will share in the chat.

50
00:17:22.099 --> 00:17:23.959
Toni Wahrstätter: And just to add to that.

51
00:17:24.449 --> 00:17:30.539
Toni Wahrstätter: So, there are basically the three open PRs we're talking about. The first one is about adding

52
00:17:30.649 --> 00:17:44.519
Toni Wahrstätter: the engine API method, so this is not necessarily needed, but depends on which CL client we're using, because, I think Floadster, which we have been using so far, is not blinding the block level access lists, as they are not blinding

53
00:17:44.719 --> 00:17:52.749
Toni Wahrstätter: the transactions, for example, which other clients do. So, this is not important in this case, if we keep using Lodestar.

54
00:17:55.619 --> 00:18:03.619
Toni Wahrstätter: And the other one is more like an update to the EAP, so if my client is on the call, maybe, you could have approved that.

55
00:18:03.989 --> 00:18:13.239
Toni Wahrstätter: This was basically, regarding your comment on the Discord channel, and the last one is the JSON RPC method, so also not really blocking, but nice to have.

56
00:18:24.980 --> 00:18:25.989
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you.

57
00:18:27.160 --> 00:18:29.910
Mario Vega: I think we can move on to the…

58
00:18:30.060 --> 00:18:34.679
Mario Vega: second, part of your comment, Stefan,

59
00:18:35.440 --> 00:18:37.800
Mario Vega: Basically, this is… this is stable…

60
00:18:38.000 --> 00:18:43.060
Mario Vega: Let me… let me just share again the… the common link for everyone to be on the same page.

61
00:18:43.610 --> 00:18:50.269
Mario Vega: This is the comment that we're referring to. The second bullet point in that comment contains a table.

62
00:18:50.430 --> 00:18:55.140
Mario Vega: It's, basically the status of all the clients.

63
00:18:55.350 --> 00:19:01.760
Mario Vega: Yeah, I just wanted to go client by client to see how they are in the implementation phase of this.

64
00:19:01.870 --> 00:19:13.249
Mario Vega: I'll just start with Geth, because I think they're the further along in implementation, to see if they have any comments about either the EIPs or the implementation itself.

65
00:19:13.500 --> 00:19:16.859
Mario Vega: Is anyone from GED here who wants to comment on this?

66
00:19:17.340 --> 00:19:20.020
Mario Vega: For block-level access list, DevNet 2.

67
00:19:21.110 --> 00:19:22.080
Mario Vega: Status?

68
00:19:30.070 --> 00:19:33.809
Marius van der Wijden: I might be the only one from, from Gus here.

69
00:19:33.980 --> 00:19:39.319
Marius van der Wijden: As far as I know, so we have definitely implemented the…

70
00:19:39.700 --> 00:19:44.780
Marius van der Wijden: We have implemented the three, EAPs on top.

71
00:19:45.040 --> 00:19:57.810
Marius van der Wijden: like slotnum, and Bell Definite2 should also work now. Like, the Bell part of Bell Definite2 should also work now.

72
00:19:59.110 --> 00:20:12.599
Marius van der Wijden: So, yeah, we are doing a lot of internal refactors to get some of the stuff merged into master, so that is where some of our time is spent, but, yeah, as far as I know, we should be okay for a definite.

73
00:20:16.210 --> 00:20:17.219
Mario Vega: Okay, thank you.

74
00:20:17.490 --> 00:20:24.990
Mario Vega: Thank you. Alright, moving on, Bessu, I see that you have local access 7708.

75
00:20:25.180 --> 00:20:29.610
Mario Vega: Any comments on the… Status, anything that you want to share?

76
00:20:29.820 --> 00:20:30.460
Mario Vega: I'm a project.

77
00:20:30.460 --> 00:20:35.420
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): I… I… I… I can do that. So we have…

78
00:20:35.660 --> 00:20:41.890
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): Merged 7708, 7778, the gas refunds…

79
00:20:43.650 --> 00:20:51.909
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): And we have merged AT24 swap and Doop, and SlotNum is in review.

80
00:20:52.860 --> 00:20:59.029
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): And… oh yeah, for the e-logs, we have merged a version that

81
00:20:59.130 --> 00:21:05.889
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): The previous one that only had the transfer, that did not have a special topic for Smith District.

82
00:21:06.210 --> 00:21:17.369
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): self-destruct. We have also a PR in review that is adding that. So, all the… all the EIPs are either merged or in review.

83
00:21:19.870 --> 00:21:20.990
Mario Vega: Excellent, thank you.

84
00:21:21.140 --> 00:21:23.320
Mario Vega: Anyone from RETH?

85
00:21:23.860 --> 00:21:25.000
Mario Vega: That's available.

86
00:21:25.870 --> 00:21:37.289
Jen: Yeah, we have everything in progress, no blockers. I'm just taking a bit more time to review all PRs, and should be in by end of day.

87
00:21:37.490 --> 00:21:42.519
Jen: Unless there's some spec changes, and we might need to allocate more time.

88
00:21:44.780 --> 00:21:45.560
Mario Vega: Thank you.

89
00:21:46.130 --> 00:21:48.760
Mario Vega: Excellent. Anyone from Nethermind?

90
00:21:50.690 --> 00:21:53.030
Łukasz Rozmej: So,

91
00:21:54.160 --> 00:22:10.560
Łukasz Rozmej: We have, I think, everything implemented. There will be, probably last few slight changes to slot number. We are currently integrating it to one branch. It's not master, but it's a DevNet2 branch.

92
00:22:10.710 --> 00:22:26.269
Łukasz Rozmej: And after DevNet2 will be stabilized, we'll probably integrate everything to master at that point, so that's our plan. Not sure about Gatsby funds, because there was some additional discussion around it, and Ben was…

93
00:22:26.600 --> 00:22:31.530
Łukasz Rozmej: implementing that PR, and he's traveling now, so, not here.

94
00:22:31.670 --> 00:22:34.799
Łukasz Rozmej: Anything else, Mark, you want to add?

95
00:22:37.810 --> 00:22:44.470
Marc: No, nothing else, really. I think, yeah, we should have all of the, new IP… new EIPs merged soon.

96
00:22:49.510 --> 00:23:02.300
Mario Vega: Yeah, and on 7778, I think we have a comment. I'll get to that in a bit. Let me just try to finish with the rest of the clients. But yeah, there's definitely some open questions and comments.

97
00:23:02.660 --> 00:23:08.040
Mario Vega: Alright. From Aragon, do we have any… anyone here that can share some updates?

98
00:23:08.600 --> 00:23:17.210
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, so, with the bells, themselves, we are still finishing, some bits and pieces,

99
00:23:19.620 --> 00:23:26.350
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, mostly, mostly done, and we should be ready this week, hopefully.

100
00:23:26.620 --> 00:23:37.169
Andrew Ashikhmin: With, 7708, It's, it's in review.

101
00:23:37.840 --> 00:23:43.540
Andrew Ashikhmin: With, 77.78 gas refunds,

102
00:23:43.700 --> 00:23:54.089
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, we'll probably have a discussion shortly afterwards, but, sorry, like, I, I… It was me who…

103
00:23:54.370 --> 00:23:58.269
Andrew Ashikhmin: I actually wanted to make some changes, but…

104
00:23:59.050 --> 00:24:05.539
Andrew Ashikhmin: Then I realized that it's very difficult to change receipts in Aragon.

105
00:24:05.960 --> 00:24:14.739
Andrew Ashikhmin: So, we can implement 7778 without receipt, like, changing the receipt.

106
00:24:14.870 --> 00:24:23.530
Andrew Ashikhmin: With adding only an ephemeral field to the receipt, but it will be very difficult for us to implement it with a…

107
00:24:24.000 --> 00:24:25.409
Andrew Ashikhmin: Persistent field.

108
00:24:26.370 --> 00:24:37.360
Andrew Ashikhmin: 7843… we haven't started implementing it yet. I mean, it's probably an easy

109
00:24:37.550 --> 00:24:40.610
Andrew Ashikhmin: One, but it's not done yet.

110
00:24:41.300 --> 00:24:58.349
Andrew Ashikhmin: And, we have merged 80-24. So, when you say Wednesday, do you mean Wednesday this week, or Wednesday next week? Because I think we'll be ready by Wednesday next week, but not by Wednesday this week.

111
00:25:00.310 --> 00:25:12.529
Stefan Starflinger: Preferably this week, but I can always, yeah, I mean, it would have been good to be done earlier, like Barnabas said, but generally, when… I think at least 3 clients already.

112
00:25:12.640 --> 00:25:21.829
Stefan Starflinger: And I hear out that we should have 3 clients ready by Wednesday to launch it, but we can always add clients as they get ready.

113
00:25:22.230 --> 00:25:23.789
Stefan Starflinger: Just to get it started.

114
00:25:25.400 --> 00:25:26.110
Andrew Ashikhmin: Okay.

115
00:25:29.150 --> 00:25:33.410
Mario Vega: Also, we can provide help with the consumption of the tests, so we have engine

116
00:25:33.730 --> 00:25:43.859
Mario Vega: engine API tests in the release, which includes CellDump, so if you guys need help to run this, please reach out, to Felipe or myself, and we can help you out.

117
00:25:44.610 --> 00:25:51.890
Mario Vega: Alright, thanks, thanks, Andrew. Anyone from Nimbus, just to finalize the status on the clients?

118
00:25:58.670 --> 00:26:00.930
Dustin: Yeah, yeah,

119
00:26:02.180 --> 00:26:09.759
Dustin: moment. So, yeah, we are… this is in progress. We don't have them yet. I think… I think…

120
00:26:10.180 --> 00:26:14.670
Dustin: This week would be… Hmm… ambitious?

121
00:26:14.980 --> 00:26:18.740
Dustin: For us, but… Yeah.

122
00:26:22.710 --> 00:26:24.180
Dustin: Oh, yeah, in progress.

123
00:26:25.570 --> 00:26:27.549
Mario Vega: Alright, perfect. Thank you.

124
00:26:27.700 --> 00:26:40.559
Mario Vega: Yeah, please keep us updated on the IT R&D. If you have something ready, please reach out to Stefan so he can help you out, to, just, point you out in the right direction.

125
00:26:41.010 --> 00:26:48.779
Mario Vega: Alright, I think the main discussion point for a specific EIP seems to be 7778. Should we just proceed with that?

126
00:26:50.970 --> 00:26:58.009
Mario Vega: Tony, I think you have the… you raised the discussion point on the agenda. Do you have more context on what you want to discuss regarding.

127
00:26:58.010 --> 00:26:58.500
Toni Wahrstätter: EF.

128
00:26:58.500 --> 00:26:59.450
Mario Vega: 7778.

129
00:27:00.200 --> 00:27:08.910
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, so, right now, what we got in the specs is using the, gas used after the refund.

130
00:27:09.850 --> 00:27:21.839
Toni Wahrstätter: Sorry, before the refund in accumulative gas used in the receipts, and we changed that recently. So this means, with EAP7778, there won't be any receipt changes needed.

131
00:27:22.320 --> 00:27:29.360
Toni Wahrstätter: And clients can just continue dealing with the receipts as they are, for example, in EVGETransaction receipts.

132
00:27:30.080 --> 00:27:37.169
Toni Wahrstätter: And I think Guru has already a PR open for this one, because I think we already merged,

133
00:27:37.440 --> 00:27:40.269
Toni Wahrstätter: the other change, and now we need a new PR,

134
00:27:40.560 --> 00:27:43.629
Toni Wahrstätter: Correct me if I'm wrong, Guru, if you're on the call.

135
00:27:43.850 --> 00:27:46.900
Toni Wahrstätter: But I think we can just proceed with merging this.

136
00:27:47.300 --> 00:27:53.860
Toni Wahrstätter: And… Yeah, the question is more like, how much time will clients need to implement that now?

137
00:27:53.970 --> 00:27:57.519
Toni Wahrstätter: How far are clients with 7778, and…

138
00:27:57.700 --> 00:28:10.230
Toni Wahrstätter: If this doesn't, like, delay definite 2, because clients are busy with slot num anyway, then I would just say we implement that small change and get it into DEFNET 2.

139
00:28:15.000 --> 00:28:22.629
Mario Vega: Stefan, what's your preference? I think, from the testing side, we would have to make the change to spec, and just refill the tests, if I'm not mistaken.

140
00:28:22.820 --> 00:28:25.060
Mario Vega: Maybe subtle changes in the tests.

141
00:28:25.390 --> 00:28:26.959
Mario Vega: One or two PRs.

142
00:28:27.330 --> 00:28:36.780
Guru: Actually, yeah, on the specs and testing side, we have a draft PR up already, which makes all of these changes, so as soon as we make a decision.

143
00:28:37.190 --> 00:28:39.739
Guru: We should be good to merge that.

144
00:28:41.760 --> 00:28:44.050
Stefan Starflinger: I don't have a strong preference.

145
00:28:44.640 --> 00:28:57.020
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, maybe just to add to that, so this was basically the consensus after some discussion in this call. So, I think at this point, all clients agreed that this is the way how we should proceed.

146
00:28:57.150 --> 00:29:03.189
Toni Wahrstätter: So, from that perspective, it's very clear. It's just a matter of, do we want to put it into DEFNET2?

147
00:29:03.310 --> 00:29:04.330
Toni Wahrstätter: Or…

148
00:29:04.660 --> 00:29:11.440
Toni Wahrstätter: definite free. But this is like, okay, then we would change the receipt now, and change it back in definite free.

149
00:29:11.780 --> 00:29:16.089
Toni Wahrstätter: So, this change is actually, quite a simplification, I would say.

150
00:29:17.930 --> 00:29:18.890
Mario Vega: Yes, Andrew?

151
00:29:19.970 --> 00:29:24.350
Andrew Ashikhmin: Well, so, for us, yeah, I just…

152
00:29:24.550 --> 00:29:30.740
Andrew Ashikhmin: Initially, I thought it would be easy for us to change the receipt format, but then I realized that it would be

153
00:29:30.890 --> 00:29:33.770
Andrew Ashikhmin: very difficult. So…

154
00:29:34.070 --> 00:29:42.140
Andrew Ashikhmin: For us, it's… there is a strong preference for Aragon to implement the version that doesn't require

155
00:29:42.920 --> 00:29:44.919
Andrew Ashikhmin: A change to the receipts.

156
00:29:45.570 --> 00:29:46.880
Andrew Ashikhmin: Otherwise…

157
00:29:47.130 --> 00:29:55.920
Andrew Ashikhmin: We won't be able to… it will take us probably a few weeks… well, at least maybe a couple of weeks to implement.

158
00:29:56.120 --> 00:30:01.659
Andrew Ashikhmin: the change, to the receipt format. So I strongly prefer

159
00:30:02.270 --> 00:30:07.369
Andrew Ashikhmin: To do the version that doesn't require the receipt form a change now.

160
00:30:09.970 --> 00:30:10.870
Mario Vega: Daniel?

161
00:30:12.600 --> 00:30:22.430
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): Yeah, so from Basel's side, we, as I mentioned before, we have merged 7778 as is with the modified, received.

162
00:30:23.090 --> 00:30:26.999
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): So we will need to revert this back…

163
00:30:27.750 --> 00:30:41.229
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): I cannot 100% guarantee that we could do this until Wednesday. So, I mean, how far doesn't need to specify today? We can make it, but if we change this now, it might take us,

164
00:30:41.780 --> 00:30:47.820
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): I don't know, one or two days to make the actual change back with the testing, I think.

165
00:30:48.770 --> 00:30:54.569
Daniel Lehrner (Besu): So there might be a slight… there might be a slight delay for us if we go with the adoption.

166
00:30:55.440 --> 00:31:03.959
Mario Vega: Okay, thank you. There's a nice comment from Dragon in the chat, which is, what is better for the protocol?

167
00:31:04.200 --> 00:31:08.540
Mario Vega: please think about that, I'll get back to that. Jen, do you have any comments?

168
00:31:09.180 --> 00:31:21.029
Jen: Yeah, actually just wanted to plus one on what Dragon said, and from the rev side, we do have, right now, implemented according to the specs, so we'll also need to make changes.

169
00:31:21.030 --> 00:31:29.920
Jen: But yeah, I would like to discuss, first highlight why we are making this change, and what it means to the protocol, aside from how complex it is.

170
00:31:38.660 --> 00:31:44.909
Mario Vega: Do you have any comments on what would be better for… In general.

171
00:31:47.120 --> 00:31:51.929
Mario Vega: someone who's more familiar with this PR, this EIP, sorry, in particular, who wants to chime in?

172
00:31:51.930 --> 00:31:58.060
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, so I think it's more an implementation detail, what we're discussing. It's like…

173
00:31:58.310 --> 00:32:01.810
Toni Wahrstätter: I, I, I cannot, I cannot really answer how…

174
00:32:01.960 --> 00:32:04.839
Toni Wahrstätter: Like, invasive it is to change the receipt.

175
00:32:05.120 --> 00:32:10.570
Toni Wahrstätter: The clients I've talked to have been saying that it's not, like.

176
00:32:10.700 --> 00:32:17.739
Toni Wahrstätter: A crazy thing to do, but of course, not doing it is… Like, easier to implement.

177
00:32:18.090 --> 00:32:24.449
Toni Wahrstätter: So, if you look into the specs, as Guru has specced that now, it's a very simple change.

178
00:32:24.950 --> 00:32:31.050
Toni Wahrstätter: And what it gives us, eventually, is just not allowing any transaction to

179
00:32:31.700 --> 00:32:34.119
Toni Wahrstätter: Eventually caused more work than it.

180
00:32:34.800 --> 00:32:36.160
Toni Wahrstätter: Pays for.

181
00:32:36.730 --> 00:32:40.070
Toni Wahrstätter: Or eventually having blocks containing more work

182
00:32:40.520 --> 00:32:47.629
Toni Wahrstätter: Then the block gas limit actually enforces. So this is the underlying rationale behind the EUP itself.

183
00:32:49.800 --> 00:32:51.249
Mario Vega: Thank you. Yes, Maurice?

184
00:32:52.500 --> 00:32:57.389
Marius van der Wijden: Yeah, so as I… as I understand this, there are two kind of

185
00:32:57.640 --> 00:33:01.540
Marius van der Wijden: Ways of thinking about, this field.

186
00:33:01.690 --> 00:33:07.639
Marius van der Wijden: Either if we don't change anything, then something for the users might change.

187
00:33:09.340 --> 00:33:19.189
Marius van der Wijden: So, either we change something for the nodes, in that we would need to store a secondary field that we will not

188
00:33:19.740 --> 00:33:26.560
Marius van der Wijden: Be able to, so, we will not be able to just

189
00:33:26.780 --> 00:33:35.830
Marius van der Wijden: load this data from somewhere, and then recompute it. In order to recompute this data, we would need to execute the

190
00:33:36.080 --> 00:33:45.870
Marius van der Wijden: execute the block, so the only way of kind of getting to this data is to also store it, which would mean we would need to store much…

191
00:33:46.120 --> 00:33:57.920
Marius van der Wijden: much more in the database, or, like, one field per receipt more in the database, per transaction more in the database, which is okay.

192
00:33:58.240 --> 00:34:04.080
Marius van der Wijden: Because other fields from the receipts we can just load from the block.

193
00:34:04.470 --> 00:34:08.619
Marius van der Wijden: And they don't really cost us anything, storage-wise.

194
00:34:08.880 --> 00:34:17.370
Marius van der Wijden: And yeah, on the other hand, it is… it might be a usability issue for users, but overall.

195
00:34:17.920 --> 00:34:20.980
Marius van der Wijden: I think everyone wants this EIP, it's just…

196
00:34:25.989 --> 00:34:30.389
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, maybe just to add, because this was, this was a great, description.

197
00:34:30.569 --> 00:34:35.199
Toni Wahrstätter: And just to add, because Dragon has also, had a comment in the chat.

198
00:34:35.539 --> 00:34:46.189
Toni Wahrstätter: So, there are two things we want. We need the gas used in a block, right? We need to enforce the block gas limit, and for this, under parallel execution.

199
00:34:46.449 --> 00:34:55.189
Toni Wahrstätter: We need a way to know, was the block gas limit obeyed, even though transactions execute on different cores, on different threads.

200
00:34:55.709 --> 00:34:58.599
Toni Wahrstätter: So this was also part of the discussion, why…

201
00:34:59.629 --> 00:35:07.529
Toni Wahrstätter: That's why we need to always know, like, how much did the transaction account against the block gas limit.

202
00:35:07.779 --> 00:35:10.489
Toni Wahrstätter: Versus how much did their user actually pay?

203
00:35:10.719 --> 00:35:13.429
Toni Wahrstätter: So this has been part of a discussion, and…

204
00:35:14.049 --> 00:35:21.509
Toni Wahrstätter: There are two ways to deal with it, and both are fine with block access lists, and one is without a new receipt field.

205
00:35:21.839 --> 00:35:32.059
Toni Wahrstätter: And the other, includes a new receipt field. And right now, I think there's, broad consensus that we eventually want to do it without a new receipt field, so…

206
00:35:32.709 --> 00:35:39.449
Toni Wahrstätter: It's more like, do we want to delay definite tool launch until next week, which would mean we can implement this change.

207
00:35:39.689 --> 00:35:41.559
Toni Wahrstätter: Or do we want to launch it?

208
00:35:41.719 --> 00:35:43.039
Toni Wahrstätter: With the old version.

209
00:35:44.209 --> 00:35:45.829
Toni Wahrstätter: Booked. This week.

210
00:35:49.150 --> 00:35:55.539
Stefan Starflinger: So you're, like, 80-90% sure that this is the right way to go, to summarize.

211
00:35:56.070 --> 00:35:57.410
Stefan Starflinger: With this change.

212
00:35:58.610 --> 00:36:02.670
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, it feels like it's less invasive, you know, because everything…

213
00:36:03.020 --> 00:36:18.370
Toni Wahrstätter: around receipts will stay the same, because nothing changes from how clients use receipts today. The only thing that will change, and will become a little bit more complex, is enforcing the block gas limit when transactions are executed on different threads.

214
00:36:18.500 --> 00:36:28.779
Toni Wahrstätter: Because you can't just take the receipt values and go through the gas limits and check if they could, at this point in time, still fit into the block.

215
00:36:29.320 --> 00:36:36.119
Toni Wahrstätter: But, yeah, there are other ways how clients can deal with this, and this was also discussed. So, it seems like…

216
00:36:36.680 --> 00:36:39.740
Toni Wahrstätter: We don't need many changes to make it work.

217
00:36:45.850 --> 00:36:58.789
Stefan Starflinger: Okay, I generally tend… if we can get it in this week, this change, it doesn't have to be Wednesday, but if we can make it this week, then I'm for it, but I wouldn't want to wait until next week.

218
00:37:03.680 --> 00:37:08.569
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, I'm also fine with delaying it. We can also delay it for definite free. It's a small change, and…

219
00:37:09.170 --> 00:37:11.279
Toni Wahrstätter: Shouldn't block… shouldn't be a blocker.

220
00:37:12.470 --> 00:37:13.710
Mario Vega: Andrew? Yes.

221
00:37:14.100 --> 00:37:33.880
Andrew Ashikhmin: Well, if in DevNet 2 we go with the version that requires a receipt change, then probably in Aragon we'll have to skip DevNet 2, because, as I mentioned, for us, it's very difficult to change the receipt format.

222
00:37:36.750 --> 00:37:41.320
Andrew Ashikhmin: And there is no point in doing that work if it will be scrapped anyway.

223
00:37:43.010 --> 00:37:48.759
Mario Vega: Okay, since I think it would be very valuable to have all clients on DevNet2, otherwise we will lose,

224
00:37:48.990 --> 00:37:56.069
Mario Vega: information. I think delaying for a week seems to be, like, an okay solution. Is anyone opposed to this change?

225
00:37:56.500 --> 00:38:00.300
Mario Vega: From the rest of the clients, it seems like an easy change for everyone else.

226
00:38:07.930 --> 00:38:15.820
Mario Vega: Alright, if not, I think, what we need to do… Sorry, we're talking about 77… 7778, Lukash.

227
00:38:17.290 --> 00:38:32.239
Mario Vega: We're deciding whether we are gonna change the receipt format or not, and just wanted input from the rest of the clients to see if we make another release of the tests in this, in the following days, for us to delay the net to… for next week.

228
00:38:32.300 --> 00:38:37.330
Mario Vega: So we can get this change in, which would make it much easier for everyone to implement the EIP.

229
00:38:38.490 --> 00:38:41.400
Łukasz Rozmej: So, for us, probably doesn't matter much.

230
00:38:42.300 --> 00:38:44.260
Łukasz Rozmej: We can… Adjust.

231
00:38:50.570 --> 00:38:55.249
Mario Vega: just to raise Dragon's command, we could do without the field in DevNet 2.

232
00:38:55.490 --> 00:38:58.270
Mario Vega: Do you mean the change or not the change?

233
00:39:00.460 --> 00:39:08.000
Dragan Rakita: I'm not sure what's specified currently in the IP. Either way, both things are very, like, nuisances,

234
00:39:09.080 --> 00:39:16.870
Dragan Rakita: the main thing is AAP is good, it needs to be included. If we go with the field or without the field, those are details.

235
00:39:17.370 --> 00:39:20.960
Dragan Rakita: I guess let's do what's easier.

236
00:39:21.680 --> 00:39:26.080
Dragan Rakita: If it is easier to remove that field from the receipt, let's go with that.

237
00:39:28.530 --> 00:39:30.180
Dragan Rakita: But I'm fine with that.

238
00:39:35.900 --> 00:39:44.399
Mario Vega: Alright, and Marius asks, Tony if you can make the write-up in the discourse to make sure that everyone's aligned with the same thing. Alright.

239
00:39:54.930 --> 00:39:56.820
Mario Vega: Alright, cool.

240
00:40:00.540 --> 00:40:05.790
Mario Vega: So, yeah, let's move ahead, with the PBS for the sake of time.

241
00:40:07.000 --> 00:40:16.770
Mario Vega: Is anyone here that has more context on EPVS status? Otherwise, we can go to the clients directly to see how is the progress with them implementing EPVS.

242
00:40:22.870 --> 00:40:24.649
Justin Traglia: Let's start with the clients.

243
00:40:25.080 --> 00:40:25.670
Mario Vega: Alright.

244
00:40:26.250 --> 00:40:30.980
Mario Vega: Okay, let me just go, one by one. Anyone from Lighthouse?

245
00:40:31.890 --> 00:40:40.459
Eitan: Yeah, Lighthouse-wise, we're working on some consensus changes right now, so, fork choice, payload processing.

246
00:40:40.590 --> 00:40:49.470
Eitan: Epoch stuff, and so we're aiming to have… start interoping, like, in a Lighthouse-only Kurtosis network in the following weeks.

247
00:40:49.700 --> 00:40:53.619
Eitan: But there's still a lot of work left to do. But yeah, that's our update.

248
00:40:56.180 --> 00:41:00.790
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you. Anyone from Teku who wants to share something regarding EBS?

249
00:41:00.790 --> 00:41:08.970
Stefan Bratanov: Yeah, so not much update from TechCore compared to last time, the ACDC call last week.

250
00:41:09.620 --> 00:41:14.560
Stefan Bratanov: But we're having a couple more people working on it, so hopefully…

251
00:41:14.950 --> 00:41:18.189
Stefan Bratanov: We have some interop, block interrupt.

252
00:41:18.370 --> 00:41:22.700
Stefan Bratanov: Only Deco in the… Next couple of weeks, hopefully.

253
00:41:26.440 --> 00:41:29.959
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you. Anyone from Prism who wants to share an update?

254
00:41:36.270 --> 00:41:46.940
James He: I don't see Terrence or POTAs, but, we're making good progress on all the spec functions, and then we've just started on…

255
00:41:47.060 --> 00:41:50.629
James He: some of the Beacon APIs, and

256
00:41:51.080 --> 00:41:57.190
James He: I'll leave it up to Nico to kick us off on the issue, but,

257
00:41:57.600 --> 00:42:07.449
James He: there is an area that, we should align on, for beacon API, statefulness.

258
00:42:08.720 --> 00:42:12.779
Mario Vega: Yeah, but definitely, I'll get to that point, yeah, after client updates.

259
00:42:12.950 --> 00:42:18.230
Mario Vega: Thank you. Anyone from Rimbus who can share an update?

260
00:42:19.960 --> 00:42:30.949
Dustin: Sure, so, I would say steady progress, so we've been kind of merging into… we learned, from Frisaka, where we've been merging into,

261
00:42:31.160 --> 00:42:33.900
Dustin: And to trunk, I mean, in a…

262
00:42:34.150 --> 00:42:40.930
Dustin: controlled way, but still a continuous way. So we have… The…

263
00:42:41.620 --> 00:42:48.929
Dustin: envelope processing is kind of… and also, we have the… we already had a bunch of handling for,

264
00:42:49.170 --> 00:43:06.079
Dustin: like, obviously the Gloss data columns, but now we're getting, I don't know, all this, like, a flavor here, I'm not a huge amount of detail, but, integrating that into the block production specifically, like, to… not just handling incoming, but creating our own.

265
00:43:06.720 --> 00:43:12.160
Dustin: And broadcasting them, so those are the current open PRs, and…

266
00:43:12.450 --> 00:43:17.609
Dustin: Fork choice is still, out there, though, and that's,

267
00:43:18.510 --> 00:43:37.270
Dustin: Yeah, I think the thing I want to point out about fork choice, actually, because this is a potentially a bigger… bigger issue than just EPBS, and a bigger risk factor in terms of deploying this, is we're going to end up having a choice, and it's why I think it's worth spending a little more time on in AC, you know, at least

268
00:43:37.290 --> 00:43:40.660
Dustin: articulating its existence.

269
00:43:40.690 --> 00:43:51.379
Dustin: there's a change in how ProposerBoost works, Alpha 1 did this, and there was some suggestions elsewhere, and fine. But the thing is, it is backwards and compatible.

270
00:43:51.820 --> 00:43:54.560
Dustin: like… At least testing-wise, it is.

271
00:43:55.110 --> 00:44:10.410
Dustin: And Nimbus hasn't done this, and a number of other clients haven't implemented the backwards part, backwards, you know, the previous, forks either. Now, what we're going to end up with is a choice of, do we do this all at once in… for…

272
00:44:10.830 --> 00:44:14.379
Dustin: For, you know, all of the forks? Or do we kind of, kind of…

273
00:44:14.560 --> 00:44:21.989
Dustin: isolate this for GOAS, when we do this, for example, and… and they have their trade-offs.

274
00:44:22.550 --> 00:44:28.419
Dustin: Anyway, so, for choice, that's, that's still out there, yeah. Anyway, so that's, that's where we are.

275
00:44:31.680 --> 00:44:41.860
Mario Vega: Thank you. Just to finalize the client side, we can get back to fork choice, questions, and also the Bitcoin API afterwards. Lodstar, anyone from Loadstar with updates?

276
00:44:43.380 --> 00:44:48.300
NC: Yeah, so last week we have implemented the Folk Choice.

277
00:44:48.410 --> 00:44:50.930
NC: Except for the proposal boost part.

278
00:44:51.350 --> 00:44:55.370
NC: And it's actively under review and testing.

279
00:44:55.930 --> 00:44:59.979
NC: And, we also implemented the builder entity.

280
00:45:00.170 --> 00:45:07.469
NC: So we are now passing the operation spec test of the alpha.1.

281
00:45:08.170 --> 00:45:09.770
NC: spec tests?

282
00:45:10.410 --> 00:45:18.460
NC: And we are now moving on to, block importing, and also exploring the state cache.

283
00:45:18.900 --> 00:45:20.100
NC: Architecture.

284
00:45:25.840 --> 00:45:34.179
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you. Can we just, go ahead with the Bitcoin API discussion, Nico, if you want to take it from there?

285
00:45:35.380 --> 00:45:42.100
nflaig: Yeah, sure. So, I left the summary of the proposed, or the options that we have here.

286
00:45:42.130 --> 00:45:59.860
nflaig: So, currently, how the spec is done is that we have a two-step process for block production, which nicely maps on the internal beacon node state, because it's similar to how the P2P works, which has the beacon block separate to the execution payload.

287
00:46:00.300 --> 00:46:13.650
nflaig: But I noticed the problem with that is, for local block production, that it's stateful, meaning, the beacon node that produces the beacon block is the one that also has the payload.

288
00:46:13.860 --> 00:46:24.769
nflaig: And that one needs to be used to produce the execution payload envelope as well. So… and the issue with that is if you have a multi-node setup, and

289
00:46:24.900 --> 00:46:35.020
nflaig: stuff like Vouch or Vero that always requests from all beacon nodes. This kind of reduces the reliability of the block production.

290
00:46:35.520 --> 00:46:40.380
nflaig: So that's… this is basically the option 1 I listed here, which is the current spec.

291
00:46:41.290 --> 00:46:44.210
nflaig: We have two alternatives, I see.

292
00:46:44.330 --> 00:46:48.950
nflaig: The second one is, to keep this two-step process.

293
00:46:49.090 --> 00:47:03.490
nflaig: that you have to call two APIs, but, still call two APIs. But the execution payload request would return all block contents, which also includes the blobs, which is what we currently have.

294
00:47:04.180 --> 00:47:11.010
nflaig: This would allow still to publish to all beacon nodes, so that property would still be there.

295
00:47:11.230 --> 00:47:18.819
nflaig: But you still have the problem that only the beacon node that produced the initial beacon block is able to do that.

296
00:47:19.930 --> 00:47:39.060
nflaig: to, return the response for the payload. And then, option 3, that would keep it more like the status quo, where we call a single API, and then the… for the local block, we would return, as currently the beacon block, the execution payload, and blobs as well.

297
00:47:39.400 --> 00:47:47.800
nflaig: That way, the validator client can then sign everything and publish it through all the existing or connected beaker nodes.

298
00:47:47.810 --> 00:48:01.939
nflaig: So this is basically closest to what we have. Some issues there, or there are problems that were raised previously that blobs. The higher the blob count goes, the more data we have to pass around.

299
00:48:02.230 --> 00:48:11.309
nflaig: I guess especially if you run Vouch or Vero, you want them on different servers, so latency is definitely something we should consider here.

300
00:48:12.070 --> 00:48:13.979
nflaig: But I think, yeah, this keeps it…

301
00:48:14.170 --> 00:48:26.840
nflaig: closest to the status quo. It's not as nice from a spec perspective, but, so from the initial feedback, it seems like, most people are in favor of going with option 3.

302
00:48:27.550 --> 00:48:30.360
nflaig: But yeah, definitely something to get more feedback on.

303
00:48:44.300 --> 00:48:45.870
Mario Vega: Any comments from clients?

304
00:48:46.770 --> 00:48:48.440
Mario Vega: Any preference, basically?

305
00:48:55.890 --> 00:49:01.380
James He: Well, for definite zero, we're… we're just going with whatever is…

306
00:49:01.640 --> 00:49:04.080
James He: We're going with the two-step process, right?

307
00:49:07.800 --> 00:49:13.730
Barnabas: Yeah, let's not change the scope of .NET 0. Let's, aim for all these changes for .NET1.

308
00:49:14.770 --> 00:49:28.779
nflaig: So, I guess it depends what's easiest for clients, so one thing with the two-step process is also that the beaconode that produces the block needs to cache the payload and the blobs, so I'm not sure that's currently implemented.

309
00:49:29.400 --> 00:49:38.799
nflaig: Or at least, for example, I think, Dustin, you mentioned this might not be desired for you, so… I would say clients can just go with whatever is easiest for DevNet Zero.

310
00:49:45.460 --> 00:49:48.589
James He: Yeah, we didn't implement the caching yet.

311
00:49:57.800 --> 00:50:01.460
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Do we really need to have this standardization for…

312
00:50:01.620 --> 00:50:05.910
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Don't have zero anyway, so it's kind of just for client interrupts.

313
00:50:07.720 --> 00:50:12.179
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): We want to speed up everything, it's just… Let clients do.

314
00:50:12.630 --> 00:50:18.330
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): The quickest things, and then… I'll iron out the standardization later.

315
00:50:28.200 --> 00:50:38.200
nflaig: So I personally don't think we need to standardize this now, or for Definite Zero at least, but I think it would still be good if we can move ahead with the PR.

316
00:50:38.320 --> 00:50:45.859
nflaig: to get this back up to the… or to get the PR merged soon, because it's pretty large, and there are other changes as well.

317
00:50:47.880 --> 00:50:50.090
nflaig: But yeah, it's not that urgent, I would say.

318
00:50:53.220 --> 00:51:01.370
Mario Vega: Nico, just one closing comment. So, what do you need from clients? Is it just reviews, or do you need anything else to move this PR forward?

319
00:51:02.700 --> 00:51:10.260
nflaig: Yeah, so just the general reviews on the PR, and then just feedback on what options clients would prefer.

320
00:51:10.570 --> 00:51:19.799
nflaig: I think if there are not no good arguments for option 1, like how it's currently spec'd, then we should probably go with option 3 to keep the status quo.

321
00:51:24.710 --> 00:51:33.360
Mario Vega: Okay, great. Excellent. So please, clients, if you can chime in into this PR, perhaps not the most pressing issue, but it would be helpful.

322
00:51:33.590 --> 00:51:40.530
Mario Vega: please do so. I think the link is on the agenda. I'll also share it here again.

323
00:51:41.120 --> 00:51:42.599
Mario Vega: For everyone to see.

324
00:51:43.700 --> 00:51:53.280
Mario Vega: Great. Any other comments on this? I wanted to go back to Dustin's comments on fork choice. Do you want to expand on that? Do you feel like we should,

325
00:51:53.460 --> 00:51:59.840
Mario Vega: Get something decided on this call, or is it something that, Yeah, in general.

326
00:52:02.000 --> 00:52:16.379
Dustin: Sure, well, so I see, NC also, commented on this, and, and basically there was a discussion there. To summarize the Discord discussion briefly, it's that, it looks like they are the different fork choice

327
00:52:16.410 --> 00:52:22.200
Dustin: variations, let's say, can, can coexist. So that,

328
00:52:23.690 --> 00:52:25.909
Dustin: So I guess I'm not sure… it…

329
00:52:27.000 --> 00:52:33.920
Dustin: The only thing that would end up having to be, I think, sort of, and this call, relevant, decided is, is it, like.

330
00:52:34.970 --> 00:52:40.400
Dustin: It seems like people are pretty confident that this is, in fact, a…

331
00:52:40.820 --> 00:52:48.910
Dustin: Not a breaking change in the way that they say the withdrawals were, that would have been a breaking change, as it had turned out.

332
00:52:49.060 --> 00:53:08.210
Dustin: That were withdrawn from the pre-GoAS setup. But this is, the tweaks to ProposerBoost and being on the canonical chain and all that, and that's… it's fine if clients do either, and if it's fine if clients do either, then I don't think it's that important to decide now.

333
00:53:12.790 --> 00:53:14.940
Dustin: What, like, in terms of interoperability.

334
00:53:17.700 --> 00:53:18.740
Mario Vega: Distant Rico?

335
00:53:19.640 --> 00:53:27.869
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, if I remember correctly, this is… this was just a change that was… that's just… I decided to go backward into Phase 0.

336
00:53:28.050 --> 00:53:34.710
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Just because it's covering… an edge case… So, it was…

337
00:53:35.620 --> 00:53:40.180
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Fine to get this… to put this change to phase 0.

338
00:53:40.770 --> 00:53:49.000
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And… I feel like maintaining two different versions just because of that tiny change is,

339
00:53:49.290 --> 00:53:52.139
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, complication that we should not…

340
00:53:53.010 --> 00:53:56.179
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): do, if this is the question from Dustin.

341
00:53:56.660 --> 00:54:06.409
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And, so if there's anything that needs to be updated on the test, or a line that goes back to phase zero, I would

342
00:54:07.220 --> 00:54:18.909
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): just make this thing test-related and not production code related to maintain two different behaviors, and it's actually a bug fix, as far as I understood, so…

343
00:54:20.090 --> 00:54:22.410
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): I would like to have that.

344
00:54:22.710 --> 00:54:25.299
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): From Phase 0 and just update tests.

345
00:54:25.900 --> 00:54:27.420
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And have one worship.

346
00:54:31.050 --> 00:54:35.469
Dustin: Okay. I mean, I mean, Steve, I guess, Steve, the question I wrote, though, which is.

347
00:54:35.790 --> 00:54:39.859
Dustin: that I'm broadly, I'm not… as long as…

348
00:54:39.980 --> 00:54:46.849
Dustin: Pushing back the… so backporting the changes is safe to the existing production,

349
00:54:47.150 --> 00:54:51.150
Dustin: sort of forks, which are, obviously, for the EF ones, they're…

350
00:54:51.300 --> 00:54:53.710
Dustin: they're foolu at this point,

351
00:54:53.830 --> 00:54:59.139
Dustin: Frusaka, and then Electra or Pektra for… Gnosis is still on that, so…

352
00:54:59.140 --> 00:54:59.680
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): cry.

353
00:54:59.680 --> 00:55:01.840
Dustin: As long… as long as it's safe.

354
00:55:02.240 --> 00:55:05.810
Dustin: We… I don't… I don't care at all about Pre-Pectra. I…

355
00:55:05.810 --> 00:55:16.999
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So, the actual question is, is this edge case being exploited on mainnet since the beginning of the Beacon chain? And I would say.

356
00:55:17.170 --> 00:55:19.989
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): No, but I live…

357
00:55:19.990 --> 00:55:39.559
Dustin: But can it be? Right, but now that is very public, the question is, if… once clients diverge in their implementations, is this a wedge that an attacker can use? And is it actually… and crucially, is it worse to have that wedge than it is to have a suboptimal proposal boost implementation?

358
00:55:41.820 --> 00:55:47.429
Dustin: Like, I haven't seen a real analysis of this. Just, like, whatever, just do it, go ahead. Yellow.

359
00:55:48.250 --> 00:55:49.680
Dustin: And that's not sufficient.

360
00:55:52.960 --> 00:56:08.349
Mario Vega: Alright, I wanted to, see if… Justin, could you… could you chime in on this? Do you see this as a problem, or, should… also, we should, timebox this discussion, just for the sake of, continuing on to other topics?

361
00:56:08.460 --> 00:56:10.920
Mario Vega: Yeah.

362
00:56:10.920 --> 00:56:19.349
Justin Traglia: I don't have much to say, really. I mean, I wish Francesca were here to chime in. We can chat about this more on Discord, I think, but

363
00:56:19.550 --> 00:56:24.410
Justin Traglia: I don't believe there are issues. Like, I don't think there could be, like, a… I don't think that…

364
00:56:24.920 --> 00:56:28.430
Justin Traglia: A divergence in implementations of, this.

365
00:56:28.690 --> 00:56:30.059
Justin Traglia: will cause issues.

366
00:56:30.390 --> 00:56:31.120
Justin Traglia: Yeah.

367
00:56:35.180 --> 00:56:43.970
Mario Vega: Alright. Anyway, if you want to bring, this topic into the 8th R&D Discord, Dustin, just…

368
00:56:44.450 --> 00:56:48.070
Mario Vega: Just for clarification, yes, please do so, so we can continue async.

369
00:56:48.590 --> 00:56:51.070
Mario Vega: Is that… is that okay?

370
00:56:51.270 --> 00:56:52.030
Mario Vega: Alright.

371
00:56:52.430 --> 00:56:54.310
Dustin: Yep. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

372
00:56:55.280 --> 00:57:01.790
Mario Vega: Alright, thanks. Let's move on. Anything else related to EPVS that we should discuss in this call?

373
00:57:02.260 --> 00:57:04.420
Mario Vega: Or anyone wants to bring up?

374
00:57:05.950 --> 00:57:10.060
Justin Traglia: I can very quickly mention that we are working on,

375
00:57:10.440 --> 00:57:13.449
Justin Traglia: specs for the next DevNet, so,

376
00:57:13.680 --> 00:57:17.889
Justin Traglia: Alpha 2 release. I have made an issue with,

377
00:57:18.260 --> 00:57:24.290
Justin Traglia: deadlines in this, so we plan on freezing the specs on February 6th, and making the release on February 13th.

378
00:57:24.940 --> 00:57:28.099
Justin Traglia: Just so there's time to iron out any issues.

379
00:57:29.850 --> 00:57:30.860
Justin Traglia: FYI.

380
00:57:32.310 --> 00:57:34.479
Justin Traglia: I shared a link in the chat.

381
00:57:40.250 --> 00:57:44.790
Justin Traglia: Yes, that's correct. And, there are just two open PRs at the moment.

382
00:57:45.260 --> 00:57:52.820
Justin Traglia: the, changes to the minimum builder withdrawal, delay, and, the variable PTC deadline PR.

383
00:57:53.000 --> 00:57:54.290
Justin Traglia: Bye, Francesca.

384
00:58:03.120 --> 00:58:04.189
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you.

385
00:58:04.970 --> 00:58:17.449
Mario Vega: Excellent. Yeah, I think the next topic is, gas benchmarking. Anything that we want to discuss in this call today, or any updates, anyone wants to bring up?

386
00:58:19.970 --> 00:58:32.230
Kamil Chodoła: So, nothing in particular for now. I'm in discussion on the new version of Gas Benchmarks, which is done by EF DevOps team right now.

387
00:58:32.970 --> 00:58:35.929
Kamil Chodoła: In the meantime, we are working on repricings.

388
00:58:36.060 --> 00:58:50.070
Kamil Chodoła: We got some messages from Maria that data is right now better, and working in the meantime on stateful testing to push the data for stateful scenarios, to decide on the repricings for those uploads.

389
00:58:50.500 --> 00:58:54.110
Kamil Chodoła: And that would be basically it, so, for now.

390
00:58:54.240 --> 00:58:56.189
Kamil Chodoła: The data analysis is happening.

391
00:59:01.860 --> 00:59:09.829
Mario Vega: Alright, thank you. Great. Anything else regarding gas prices or benchmarking?

392
00:59:13.510 --> 00:59:19.010
Louis: and built-in site, I will try to create a benchmark release.

393
00:59:19.360 --> 00:59:21.479
Louis: that supports Osaka.

394
00:59:21.610 --> 00:59:25.419
Louis: that tries to run the benchmark under Osaka 4.

395
00:59:26.320 --> 00:59:27.300
Louis: this week.

396
00:59:34.960 --> 00:59:36.250
Mario Vega: Excellent, thank you, Liz.

397
00:59:37.280 --> 00:59:38.180
Mario Vega: Good.

398
00:59:38.980 --> 00:59:48.050
Mario Vega: Okay, if nothing else, we can, go into the next… last two topics for this… for this call. The first one is regarding process.

399
00:59:48.300 --> 00:59:59.890
Mario Vega: and specifically the CFI EIP to DevNet process, which is what we generally talk about during this call. I made a comment.

400
01:00:00.080 --> 01:00:07.929
Mario Vega: on the… on the issue agenda, the last couple of days. And basically, I think…

401
01:00:07.930 --> 01:00:22.290
Mario Vega: We should have, like, more defined, and clearer process for everyone to, when we want to move something from CFI into DevNet, because I think there's definitely some room for improvement regarding how this was handled.

402
01:00:22.310 --> 01:00:25.660
Mario Vega: In this stepnet, and definitely we can improve.

403
01:00:25.870 --> 01:00:38.479
Mario Vega: So what I shared here is basically just a suggestion that maybe we can follow. I think the main issue was the first point that we didn't do properly for this, DevNet, which is,

404
01:00:38.540 --> 01:00:47.039
Mario Vega: that every EIP that is gonna be proposed for inclusion in a DevNet, we should post it ahead of time in the ACDT agenda.

405
01:00:47.210 --> 01:00:55.690
Mario Vega: for every client to, review, to chime in, to raise any objections, and suggest alternatives.

406
01:00:55.950 --> 01:01:09.630
Mario Vega: After that, if there are no, no major issues or major, objections raised by the clients, that is then, brought up in the… during the call.

407
01:01:09.780 --> 01:01:21.119
Mario Vega: for a second chance to… for objections, and if there is none, then just basically we start working on the EIPs that have been, just approved by everyone in the… in the DevNet.

408
01:01:21.220 --> 01:01:31.159
Mario Vega: Nevertheless, if, after that point, we still discover that there are issues that only are surfaced when the

409
01:01:31.230 --> 01:01:45.679
Mario Vega: implementation has started by the clients, or the implementation has started by the specs and tests, this… the EIP should be proposed for removal from the devnet and just defer to a future devnet at any point, if that's the case.

410
01:01:46.590 --> 01:01:51.460
Mario Vega: And the last bullet point is basically that this call should never be

411
01:01:51.460 --> 01:02:15.099
Mario Vega: use to make decisions regarding CFI to CF… SFI, moving of the, of the status of an EAP, or CFI to DFI. They will not be discussed during this call. Basically, that is, still needs to be discussed within ACDE and ACDC. This is basically, a place for discussion just for anything that we want to add that has already been approved as CFI.

412
01:02:15.100 --> 01:02:16.530
Mario Vega: in the ACD,

413
01:02:16.530 --> 01:02:23.189
Mario Vega: E or ACDC, and we discuss it here, just to move into it, to start testing procedures.

414
01:02:23.820 --> 01:02:38.039
Mario Vega: having said that, I just want to hear from people, basically if this sounds like a… like a good idea, any… any… any comments, or how this should be handled in the future, if there's any…

415
01:02:38.220 --> 01:02:41.470
Mario Vega: Issues with this process,

416
01:02:41.700 --> 01:02:44.960
Mario Vega: Other than that, what is raising this comment?

417
01:02:50.590 --> 01:02:56.919
Mario Vega: And one comment from Ansgar is definite inclusion decision, not basically an SFI decision? Yeah, Ansgar?

418
01:02:57.630 --> 01:03:05.819
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, and I mean, it was just a, just something that came to mind, because I feel like, to me,

419
01:03:06.190 --> 01:03:22.200
Ansgar Dietrichs: yeah, the inclusion of an EIP into a DevNet at least means that now, if we end up not actually SFI it, not having it be included in the fork in the end, then that was, of course, extra effort that might have been wasteful in retrospect.

420
01:03:22.200 --> 01:03:27.469
Ansgar Dietrichs: And so I feel like there's this very real tension. On the one hand, I think making all…

421
01:03:27.880 --> 01:03:29.929
Ansgar Dietrichs: debit decisions?

422
01:03:30.110 --> 01:03:51.459
Ansgar Dietrichs: only on ACDE or something, or ACDC, of course, that adds extra friction. So, in principle, I do like the idea of just continuing to do that on ACDT. But then, on the other hand, it feels like, kind of like, just saying, oh, but, like, we moved the SFI decision over. That, in a sense, on its own, also seems a bit artificial. So I don't know, I was just curious how you think about that tension between…

423
01:03:51.590 --> 01:03:53.719
Ansgar Dietrichs: The definite decision and the status decision.

424
01:03:54.630 --> 01:04:01.530
Mario Vega: Yeah, definitely, I wouldn't suggest that on ACDT we decide on a big EIP to be included in a DevNet. That would be…

425
01:04:01.740 --> 01:04:07.359
Mario Vega: erratic. For example, the ones in this, round.

426
01:04:07.670 --> 01:04:11.729
Mario Vega: Basically because they are easy, quote-unquote, to implement.

427
01:04:12.170 --> 01:04:26.230
Mario Vega: But yeah, that proved… that proved, as always, like, to be not the case, not the exact case for all the EAPs, so it's never gonna be, like, a silver bullet that we decide on the easiest, or, things to add to the devnet that are the easiest.

428
01:04:26.390 --> 01:04:37.820
Mario Vega: Definitely, we shouldn't include an ACDT, something that is very big, like block-level access lists, or something of a bigger complexity, in my opinion.

429
01:04:39.100 --> 01:04:47.040
Mario Vega: But yeah, I'm not sure. To be honest, I'm not sure if we should decide on ACDE, what to include on DevTent, or we should do it here.

430
01:04:57.720 --> 01:05:03.320
Mario Vega: Barnabas, do you have any opinion on this, or Stefan, do you have.

431
01:05:03.320 --> 01:05:18.469
Barnabas: Yeah, so basically, I think that, you know, CFI status is basically every EIP that we want to have implemented, whether it's going to be included in mainnet or not, is going to be up to ACD later on in ACDE or ACDC.

432
01:05:18.470 --> 01:05:28.740
Barnabas: But every single CFI EIP should be implemented by the client, and then… then we can evaluate if it's actually something that we want to SFI, and actually want to push out on mainnet.

433
01:05:29.490 --> 01:05:31.110
Barnabas: So,

434
01:05:31.360 --> 01:05:46.489
Barnabas: I think making the CFI to SFI decision is up to ACDE and ACDC, but whether or not to implement CFI EIP should really be up to ACDT, and just,

435
01:05:46.580 --> 01:05:54.599
Barnabas: Yeah, I think ordering it on which EIP should be implemented first can be… the decision can be made on this call.

436
01:05:58.040 --> 01:06:12.899
Stefan Starflinger: I also generally agree with that, and I think, like, only because you have an implementation doesn't mean that it's going to go into the protocol. You should really have a working implementation before the spec is really finalized, and before we have a clear idea if it's

437
01:06:12.990 --> 01:06:19.390
Stefan Starflinger: something we want in the protocol. So, generally, I think that's a good suggestion, Mario.

438
01:06:24.750 --> 01:06:32.529
Mario Vega: I also feel that we have… we gain a lot of information about EIPs once we start implementing, because before that, it's like.

439
01:06:32.990 --> 01:06:35.660
Mario Vega: Best guess scenario, while…

440
01:06:35.870 --> 01:06:50.339
Mario Vega: when we add things to the DevNet, we end up, like, really knowing the IP's problems, issues, and implementation details that turn out to be perhaps something much more, difficult to implement.

441
01:06:50.640 --> 01:06:58.019
Mario Vega: I would like to ask client devs, how do you feel about this in general, or…

442
01:07:02.550 --> 01:07:16.680
Mario Vega: And there's another comment from Ansgar. What's the general connection between implementation and DevNet? Are they usually implementations before DevNet inclusion? How easy it is to pull individual EIPs back out of a DevNet?

443
01:07:17.560 --> 01:07:22.239
Mario Vega: This is just personal, it depends, right? Yeah, it depends.

444
01:07:22.490 --> 01:07:32.709
Barnabas: how big of an EIP are we talking about? If it's a, you know, one-line change, it's very easy to revert. If it's a very significant change, then yeah, the bigger, the harder it is.

445
01:07:36.040 --> 01:07:48.830
Dustin: It's not just sheer size, I would say we saw this in Pectra, for sure, that we had EIPs and, to some degree, Fusaka, not individually huge, but they were 3 or 4 or 4 of them, very, intertwined.

446
01:07:48.950 --> 01:07:54.450
Dustin: They all change the same code, the same data structures, the same SSC objects.

447
01:07:54.930 --> 01:07:55.610
Dustin: and…

448
01:07:55.930 --> 01:08:13.499
Dustin: effectively, I mean, yeah, they were different EIPs, but they were one unit of change, practically speaking, in terms of implementing them, and it would be almost as much effort to remove one as to implement, at least from Nimbus, as to have implemented all of them together, almost.

449
01:08:13.920 --> 01:08:14.590
Dustin: Yeah.

450
01:08:26.689 --> 01:08:29.489
Mario Vega: Tony, I don't think there's a conclusion,

451
01:08:30.339 --> 01:08:46.799
Mario Vega: Yeah, last… one last question from Ansgar. Would it be too botaractic to have an initial decision on a DevNet scope, but then, a week later, on the next ACDT, make a go-no-go decision? That way, clients would have a week to look at the selected EIPs and start implementation?

452
01:08:46.969 --> 01:08:50.119
Mario Vega: So we could catch the EIPs that are more complex than expected.

453
01:08:50.840 --> 01:08:53.340
Barnabas: That's way too much overhead, in my opinion.

454
01:08:54.160 --> 01:08:55.069
Barnabas: Let's go.

455
01:08:56.939 --> 01:09:06.609
Ansgar Dietrichs: Okay, yeah, sorry for all the questions. I was just, you know, kind of from the ACDE kind of side, just trying to understand things a bit better, but yeah, yeah, no, I mean, makes sense then. I was just curious.

456
01:09:08.870 --> 01:09:16.830
Mario Vega: I think, yeah, definitely we should be more careful about, with GIPs, because even though they look like one-liners.

457
01:09:17.210 --> 01:09:28.579
Mario Vega: That's not always the case. But I think this is… this process can definitely evolve. If we catch something, any IP, for example, that is suggested to go into a DevNet, and someone

458
01:09:28.649 --> 01:09:42.239
Mario Vega: sees that this is not feasible. We'll make sure that we want to share on the agenda prior to the call, just for everyone to, like, raise the question, either during the call or before, even.

459
01:09:42.340 --> 01:09:54.250
Mario Vega: for us to, like, try to minimize the burden. Also, this raises the question whether… when are more complex EIPs gonna make the cut? Which is, I think, that's something that we have to keep discussing.

460
01:09:54.340 --> 01:10:07.689
Mario Vega: We're out of time at the moment. But yeah, definitely, I don't think it's resolved. I don't think there's, like, a perfect process, anyway. So, we can bring up this topic again in next week's call, if necessary.

461
01:10:07.840 --> 01:10:20.130
Mario Vega: There was one, just, just one more, open, comment by Pooja. I just want to very quickly give you the chance to share it, Pooja, if that's okay, before we close the call.

462
01:10:20.860 --> 01:10:32.570
Pooja Ranjan: Yeah, thank you so much, Mario. I wanted to share a few things, a few PRs which are made for BPO-related stuff. Thank you, Mario, for sharing that.

463
01:10:32.570 --> 01:10:46.759
Pooja Ranjan: So, in the first PR, I have requested to suggest, open a folder for BPO in order to keep track of progress and everything that general community would want to see, and this folder is suggested on Ethereum slash PM GitHub repository.

464
01:10:47.050 --> 01:10:57.100
Pooja Ranjan: Apart from it, there are other two PRs in the EIPS repositories, and those are with respect to the Meta EP for BP01 and BPO2.

465
01:10:57.110 --> 01:11:17.240
Pooja Ranjan: In a way, BPO1 and BPO2 are also the network upgrade, the hard fork parameters only, but it reaches the stature of a hard fork, so I believe that there should be Meta E for these two BPOs as well, and we should make Meta E for upcoming BPOs upgrade.

466
01:11:17.240 --> 01:11:20.479
Pooja Ranjan: I have added the link to these Meta Eats.

467
01:11:20.480 --> 01:11:33.320
Pooja Ranjan: kindly take a look, and yeah, just let us know your opinion. There were a couple of open questions that I wanted to share with this group here to decide and let us know. I would love to hear

468
01:11:33.530 --> 01:11:51.479
Pooja Ranjan: from the team, if there is any preference in representation of BPO when we are documenting it. There are 3 different styles. It could be BPO1, BPO Space 1, and BPO-1, whatever is preferred way. I have used BPO1 in the EIP, but if there is any other preference, please let us know.

469
01:11:51.530 --> 01:12:10.749
Pooja Ranjan: And I'm happy to update the proposal. And also, if we can get an estimate on how many BPU upgrades we are expecting a year, that would also be helpful in making a decision. I have tried to list most of the obvious question in the Fellowship of Ethereum Magician for people to refer to.

470
01:12:10.920 --> 01:12:23.840
Pooja Ranjan: If there is any strong opposition for this EIP, please drop a comment and general support, as well as any suggestion to improve this proposal are already welcome. Thank you so much.

471
01:13:20.360 --> 01:13:21.290
Marius van der Wijden: Bye, guys.

472
01:13:23.050 --> 01:13:26.089
Pooja Ranjan: All right. Thank you, everyone. Bye-bye.

473
01:13:26.960 --> 01:13:28.410
Andrew Ashikhmin: Thank you, bye-bye.

474
01:13:30.650 --> 01:13:31.420
Justin Traglia: Alright, bro.

