00:05:21	nixo:	gm
00:05:22	potuz:	GM
00:09:05	potuz:	Go Prysm!
00:09:07	potuz:	:)
00:09:13	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Go Prysm!" with ğŸ”¥
00:10:14	Manu:	The 2 remaining prysm non synced nodes are now syncing. (Should be OK in a few hours)
00:10:23	Barnabas:	https://dora.nft-devnet-9.ethpandaops.io
00:12:16	Barnabas:	some erigon/besu teku nodes seem to struggle on nft-devnet-9
00:12:20	Barnabas:	might worth investigating
00:12:26	stokes:	Devnet-5!
00:12:34	stokes:	I would suggest doing both in parallel
00:13:17	kingy_sigp:	we have fixes for our syncing issues under review
00:13:36	kingy_sigp:	lighthouse should be good by mid next week
00:15:41	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	We are looking into a couple of things too.  Still working on them. But should be fine next week
00:15:44	Phil Ngo:	Weâ€™re working on some additional issues but weâ€™ll prioritize syncing for next week
00:15:45	Barnabas:	I think not enough CL devs here to comment?
00:16:26	Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine:	Grandine will try to fix until mid next week
00:16:35	Barnabas:	Ideally we can finalize devnet 3 today
00:17:25	stokes:	Do we have any theories on why sync is slow?
00:18:41	Barnabas:	columns go brrr
00:19:02	stokes:	Replying to "columns go brrr"

Right, is it in the network layer?
00:19:07	Mario Vega:	Maybe we try to gather some info on syncing for next ACDT ?
00:19:08	stokes:	Replying to "columns go brrr"

Assuming there arenâ€™t any compute issues
00:19:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Iâ€™d be interested to see if its network rate limits being hit
00:19:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Ie too many blobs to sync them fast enough
00:19:18	Tim Beiko:	feat: update osaka style blob scheduleÂ eth-clients/holesky#129
feat: update osaka style blob scheduleÂ eth-clients/sepolia#110
feat: update osaka style blob scheduleÂ eth-clients/hoodi#19
feat: update osaka style blob scheduleÂ eth-clients/mainnet#10
00:19:23	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Maybe we try to gath..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:45	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1687#issuecomment-3221657564
00:20:54	Tim Beiko:	29 Aug: working fusaka trunk branches
3 Sep: fusaka-devnet-5 launch
10 Sep: fusaka-devnet-5 done -> use analysis to confirmÂ (target, max) values here
15 Sep: Holesky/Sepolia releases; bug bounty begins
22 Sep: Holesky forks
29 Sep: Sepolia forks
1-3 Oct: Hoodi and mainnet releases
8 Oct: Hoodi fork
5 Nov: mainnet
00:22:11	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "29 Aug: working fusa..."

our unstable/trunk works but wont survive non-finality or chaos testing until our sync fixes are merged. As soon as we get those in we're ok with the other dates.
00:22:25	stokes:	Replying to "29 Aug: working fusa..."

Yep, makes sense
00:23:23	lightclient:	Replying to "29 Aug: working fusa..."

seems like we donâ€™t have the 1 month between release and devnet fork? 2 weeks for sepolia, 1 week for hoodi?
00:23:43	stokes:	Replying to "29 Aug: working fusa..."

We only really said the 1 mo is for mainnet
00:24:37	Justin Florentine (Besu):	and L2s
00:24:38	Fredrik:	This is what was agreed on previously: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/master/processes/protocol-upgrade.md
00:25:09	potuz:	I remember something similar for Lido
00:25:28	Barnabas:	we can do mainnet beginning of dec then.
00:25:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	itâ€™s tradeoffs though, there are also many people frustrated when the fork is delayed
00:26:11	Barnabas:	L2s are the main consumers of blobs tho
00:26:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s tradeoffs thoug..."

as in, I think the cost to have the fork slip into 2026 would be very high imo, likely higher than any rollout process frustrations that might arise from a more compressed rollout
00:26:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Yes Els handle this
00:26:56	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Yes Els handle this" with ğŸ‘
00:27:18	kasey:	Is that also true for L2 <> builder integration? re proof computation for blobs
00:28:36	Justin Florentine (Besu):	cost != risk
00:28:47	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "cost != risk"

There is no real risk to L2s though
00:28:53	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "cost != risk"

Itâ€™s just that they want to support the fork on Day 1
00:29:08	potuz:	FWIW, I think Matt is absolutely right
00:29:15	potuz:	last time this was a big issue
00:29:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "FWIW, I think Matt i..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:20	potuz:	and we did a mea culpa over this
00:29:23	samcm:	Reacted to "FWIW, I think Matt i..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "cost != risk"

i think thats a pretty bold assertion, since they asked for 30 days
00:29:29	stokes:	Replying to "last time this was a..."

And I think this time is different ğŸ™‚
00:30:03	federicocarrone:	processes processes
00:30:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the Ethereum community wants Fusaka by EOY
00:30:08	nixo:	it makes the upgrade process unpredictable for those building on top of it if we donâ€™t stick to it
00:30:15	Fredrik:	Personally Iâ€™m quite neutral about the timeline itself, but I feel it makes sense for us to have something that consumers can know about in advance and not need to check for each upgrade etc
00:30:20	lightclient:	Reacted to "it makes the upgrade..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:25	nixo:	Replying to "it makes the upgrade..."

â€œbest effortâ€ isnâ€™t sufficient
00:30:48	potuz:	we never tested devnets less than 30 days
00:31:00	Barnabas:	+1 potuz
00:31:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	in principle of course the rollout time should not affect fork cadence, because by the time we have testnet releases, client attention should be able to move on to the next fork, no matter how long the rollout process then takes
00:31:32	Christine Kim:	Process also says, "If multiple upgrades are scheduled in advance, each testnet upgrade but must be at least 14 days apart."
00:31:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

6 months is very ambitious either way, I donâ€™t think itâ€™s currenty realistic
00:33:35	stokes:	I do think getting fusaka this year is worth a few parties grumbling
00:33:52	Trent:	Reacted to "I do think getting f..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:54	Justin Florentine (Besu):	I don't.
00:33:58	lightclient:	Reacted to "I don't." with ğŸ‘
00:34:10	stokes:	All the rollups I talk to would rather have more blobs, so I think they are fine w/ the tradeoff
00:34:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	whats the urgency for 1/1/2026 vs 1/15/2026?
00:34:16	potuz:	Replying to "+1 potuz"

are you agreeing with me again!??!@ I'm leaving
00:34:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "are you agreeing wit..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	meta point, given that this proces doc is a unique type of doc, we should going forward clarify how â€œbindingâ€ / reliable it is for participants. I personally considered it more a â€œthis is what we are aiming forâ€, but clearly others see it as more binding
00:34:27	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "are you agreeing wit..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:30	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "are you agreeing wit..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "are you agreeing wit..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:35	lightclient:	the rollups should use the blobs the have available ğŸ˜‚
00:34:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	very concerning (barnabas agreeing with you)
00:34:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "the rollups should u..." with ğŸ’¯
00:34:53	Barnabas:	Reacted to "are you agreeing wit..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:58	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "the rollups should u..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:04	potuz:	Preconfirmation teams pressured for the Proposer Lookahead feature, they may be affected perhaps as well
00:36:09	Justin Florentine (Besu):	there is no point in building these processes if we can't be disciplined
00:36:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "+1 potuz"

we have a strict â€œno agreeing with potuzâ€ rule, but people keep not sticking to the policy :-)
00:36:10	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Preconfirmation team..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:19	potuz:	Reacted to "we have a strict â€œno..." with ğŸ˜
00:36:27	Barnabas:	if the timelines in the docs are wrong, it needs to be changed.
00:36:33	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I do think getting f..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Preconfirmation team..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:55	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "there is no point in..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:59	Barnabas:	Reacted to "there is no point in..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:37	potuz:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

nah this is not the way it works though, we only really focus and open main feature branches with the right review process after the mainnet release is up in our main trunk branch
00:38:03	potuz:	Reacted to "there is no point in..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:47	stokes:	I think we need more info
00:39:08	lightclient:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

lmao
00:39:14	Dustin:	Reacted to "there is no point ..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:22	Dustin:	Reacted to "Preconfirmation te..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	process wise, we should treat the schedule from the doc as default, and require acd decision (like for any EIP inclusion) for override. maybe the doc should explicitly reflect that such an override is possible?
00:40:19	Caleb:	Reacted to "process wise, we s..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:26	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	If processes are there, we should stick to them. The more the ecosystem grows the less we can coordinate with everyone. So processes must e clear and respected.
00:40:32	Marius van der Wijden:	Holesky shafted me at a hackathon, good riddance
00:40:48	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Holesky shafted me a..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:05	Ben Adams:	Holesky made me loose lots of sleep
00:41:17	potuz:	Reacted to "process wise, we sho..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:22	Barnabas:	Replying to "Holesky made me loos..."

its cursed from the start
00:41:31	felipe:	Reacted to "Holesky shafted me..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:33	Caleb:	Reacted to "Holesky made me lo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:35	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "Holesky made me loos..."

respect
00:41:48	lightclient:	Reacted to "Holesky shafted me a..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:42:02	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/NethermindEth/eth-perf-research/blob/main/README.md#60-mgas
00:42:13	Tim Beiko:	This is the tracker for the current blockers
00:43:44	potuz:	can we wait until I get a new NVME?
00:43:59	Barnabas:	Reacted to "can we wait until I ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:05	Luis Pinto | Besu:	What was the story with the XEN contracts? Wasnâ€™t that kind of blocking 60M?
00:44:06	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "can we wait until I ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:13	Barnabas:	Replying to "can we wait until I ..."

Iâ€™m still rocking a SATA SSD
00:44:24	terence:	just stating the obvious, EL client release is not enough, we would need CL client releases. 98% of the block is through mev-boost these days
00:44:25	Justin Florentine (Besu):	THANKS
00:44:32	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "just stating the obv..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:46	potuz:	Replying to "can we wait until I ..."

I suck and can't set up NFS correctly to send my geth ancient to my NAS yet
00:44:56	potuz:	Replying to "can we wait until I ..."

will try dealing with it this weekend
00:45:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "just stating the obv..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:51	Barnabas:	we are targeting trunk branches for all mev stack by end of this week too
00:46:02	Barnabas:	Reacted to "just stating the obv..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:08	Justin Florentine (Besu):	idk, if my signal that i need to upgrade is a missed proposal I couldn't handle because we're at 60Mgas, i'm not happy ğŸ¤·
00:46:10	Ben Adams:	Replying to "just stating the obv..."

should we change something so CLs get the gaslimit data from ELs?
00:46:10	Dustin:	Reacted to "just stating the o..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "idk, if my signal th..."

that would require someone specifically attacking mainnet though, just with the intention to grief people that havenâ€™t updated yet. and because their txs could still be included by up-to-date proposers, that is very costly
00:47:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Re: Xen: we have a benchmarking suite for it, weâ€™re focussed on 2x state sync related benchmarks for now. But we can gather Xen data asap.
00:47:19	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Re: Xen: we have a b..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:55	potuz:	Reacted to "just stating the obv..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "idk, if my signal th..."

so I agree it would be bad ofc, but point is it is not realistic to happen
00:47:58	terence:	ya, just use exchange capability
00:48:07	potuz:	Replying to "just stating the obv..."

please no
00:48:36	Ben Adams:	Replying to "just stating the obv..."

release faster ;)
00:48:42	kasey:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

We can take turns - assign each client a â€œteamâ€ (0|1) and each team releases every other fork. Node operators just need to change clients every ~6 months.
00:48:58	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We can take turns - ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:49:00	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "idk, if my signal th..."

maybe, i'll think on it. allowing that doesn't feel like i'm developing for worst cases.
00:49:08	RaÃºl Kripalani:	During the getBlobsV3 discussion we agreed that the Engine API can evolve independent of forks. Thatâ€™s why we withdrew that proposal for Fusaka
00:49:11	potuz:	Reacted to "We can take turns - ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:49:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "We can take turns - ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:49:22	terence:	there's an eip7732 breakout tomorrow
00:49:23	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "We can take turns - ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:49:31	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "there's an eip7732 b..." with ğŸ”¥
00:49:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

why only binary switching? letâ€™s do one client per fork
00:50:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

I do think if weâ€™re serious about 6 month forks, we need bigger client teams and some of them need to change their processes. The current setup isnâ€™t really conducive to it.
00:50:19	kasey:	Reacted to "I do think if weâ€™re ..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:20	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I do think if weâ€™re ..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:23	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I do think if weâ€™re ..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:30	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10206
00:50:57	kasey:	Reacted to "why only binary swit..." with ğŸ§ 
00:51:02	Will Corcoran:	Replying to "there's an eip7732 b..."

Agenda: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1696
00:51:39	terence:	Replying to "During the getBlobsV..."

Yeah thatâ€™s fair, I just wasnâ€™t sure if client code supports this today. For ex, Prysm currently only treats engine API methods as hard fork changes, but that can be adjusted using exchange capability. We still have some work to do here
00:51:52	Barnabas:	So glammy meta EIP gonna be renamed to Meta EIP Ultra?
00:52:39	Marius van der Wijden:	Ansgar as the process expert :D
00:52:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "why only binary swit..." with ğŸ§ 
00:52:51	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "So glammy meta EIP g..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:59	Pooja Ranjan:	Version control will be good.
00:53:11	Roman:	whatâ€™s the best place to get the status on the current state of gas limit testing efforts?
00:53:19	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Yeah thatâ€™s fair, I â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:53:37	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best plac..."

https://github.com/NethermindEth/eth-perf-research/blob/main/README.md#60-mgas
00:53:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best plac..."

Gas-limit-testing group + state bloat group
00:53:42	Caleb:	Reacted to "I do think if weâ€™..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:45	Jen (Reth):	Reacted to "whatâ€™s the best plac..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best plac..."

You should be in both
00:53:59	Roman:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best plac..."

yes, but there are so many messages
00:54:23	Roman:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best plac..."

the gh page seems good too
00:54:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	also happy to take comments on the repricing meta EIP async, best would be in the EIP PR

I think there is no urgency to sort this out, we could always switch to a different format at a later point
00:54:33	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "also happy to take c..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:39	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best p..."

https://grafana.observability.ethpandaops.io/d/feo4ronhsqv40d/opcodes-benchmarking?orgId=1&from=now-24h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-posgreSQL=benuragv7iuwwb&var-ClientName=$__all&var-TestTitle=$__all&refresh=auto
00:54:44	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "whatâ€™s the best p..."

Also this^
00:55:10	CPerezz:	For updates in state bottlenecks project: https://cperezz.github.io/bloatnet-website/logbook.html 

This gets updated every day
00:55:35	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "also happy to take c..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "For updates in state..." with ğŸ”¥
00:55:41	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "also happy to take c..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "there's an eip7732 b..." with ğŸ”¥
00:56:57	Guillaume:	Reacted to "For updates in state..." with ğŸ”¥
00:56:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "For updates in state..." with ğŸ”¥
00:57:05	lightclient:	Reacted to "So glammy meta EIP gâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:59	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "For updates in state..." with ğŸ”¥
00:58:00	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Not every EIP needs a presentation, like 80% of them. We can discuss them all but presenting takes too much time.
00:58:09	Csaba:	If the deadline seems too late, we could do a pre-registration deadline, with at least some details, so that we donâ€™t have EIPs popping up the last day.
00:58:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Not every EIP needs ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:58:35	Dustin:	As a process point, how does this interact with random last-minute, oh, let's wave that EIP in, EIPs which happened in Fusaka?
00:58:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

my personal feeling is that with the current client situation, ideal outcome would be one fork every 8 months (so 3 forks every 2 years). still quite the stretch goal, but not unrealistic like 6 months
00:58:56	Dustin:	At least 2 or 3 were just straightforwardly past stated deadlines
00:58:57	potuz:	Reacted to "Not every EIP needs ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:58:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

(client situation as in resources, team sizes etc.)
00:59:35	potuz:	Replying to "As a process point, ..."

+!
00:59:37	potuz:	Replying to "As a process point, ..."

+2
00:59:45	Greg Colvin:	The discussions threads on the Magicians is a good place to ask the EIP authors your questions.
01:00:01	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "The discussions thre..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:05	marc|wolovim:	Forkcast will introduce the tier ranking feature again for signal gathering. Open to other experiments/ideas.
01:00:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "The discussions thre..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:16	Greg Colvin:	Every EIP has a thread.
01:00:17	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "The discussions thre..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:20	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Forkcast will introd..." with â¤ï¸
01:01:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "in principle of cour..."

IMO this is a discussion we should realistically have in person and everyone can sort their teams accordingly
01:01:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Not every EIP needs ..." with ğŸ’¯
01:02:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "IMO this is a discus..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:15	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2926
01:02:34	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with â¤ï¸
01:02:37	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Replying to "https://eips.ethereu..."

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4762
01:04:26	Tim Beiko:	What is the main benefit of this?
01:04:37	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "What is the main ben..." with â•
01:05:19	CPerezz:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

Infinitely cheaper proving for certain worse-cases. Also much smaller proofs when code is needed (MPT proofs)

IIUC
01:05:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	in terms of EIPs deadline rigidity, I think there are two cases:
completely new EIP, on a topic not previously discussed
EIP that was â€œpre announcedâ€, i.e. comes out of a known workstream

I think a completely new EIP addition past deadline should be a rare exception.

It should be okay though for us to agree that we would be open to additional EIPs for specific topics (say e.g. state operation repricing) that are important to make the fork useful
01:05:54	Trent:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

Larger contract sizes?
01:06:05	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "in terms of EIPs dea..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:19	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Infinitely cheaper p..." with â¤ï¸
01:07:04	draganrakita:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

What are downsides?
01:07:52	CPerezz:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

@Trent Doesnâ€™t matter. But ofc if they are bigger, the savings are bigger potentially
01:08:03	CPerezz:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

@draganrakita Complexity probably?
01:09:30	Wei Han Ng:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

One more upside - adding code size to the account fields will make  EXTCODESIZE  more performant (at least in geth AFAIK)
01:09:38	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Could we benchmark the performance increase for zk provers?
01:09:42	Trent:	Replying to "What is the main ben..."

@CPerezz I meant it unlocks larger contracts in a forward compatible way, given we couldnâ€™t figure it out for fusaka
01:09:54	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Replying to "Could we benchmark t..."

I think we would mainly need a POC
01:10:17	potuz:	we feel you
01:10:29	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we feel you" with ğŸ˜„
01:10:31	draganrakita:	Reacted to "we feel you" with â¤ï¸
01:10:37	Guillaume:	Reacted to "we feel you" with â¤ï¸
01:10:40	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "we feel you" with â¤ï¸
01:10:57	CPerezz:	Reacted to "@CPerezz I meant it ..." with ğŸ™
01:11:19	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we feel you" with â¤ï¸
01:11:34	marc|wolovim:	Reacted to "we feel you" with â¤ï¸
01:11:40	Wei Han Ng:	https://hackmd.io/RfHgXDnBSW2CZkWhANjeHw?view 
If anyone wants more data point regarding bytecode utilization, please check out this doc.

TLDR - only small chunks of bytecodes are touch
01:11:51	Wei Han Ng:	Reacted to "we feel you" with â¤ï¸
01:12:07	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7843
01:12:19	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7793
01:12:30	CPerezz:	Reacted to "https://hackmd.io/Rf..." with â¤ï¸
01:14:21	Marius van der Wijden:	Conditional transactions sound like a LOT of work in the mempool
01:14:44	Csaba:	That enforced fixed position sounds something that needs lots of coordination.
01:14:50	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "That enforced fixed ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:23	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10218
01:15:29	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10220
01:17:11	Marc:	Replying to "That enforced fixed â€¦"
why is that? only the builder needs to decide where to include the transaction
01:19:20	Marc:	Replying to "Conditional transactâ€¦"
I donâ€™t think it necessarily would be, the desired position of the transaction is static and given up front
01:19:32	Marc:	Replying to "Conditional transactâ€¦"
would be good to discuss more later
01:19:33	Marius van der Wijden:	I think its pretty unclean and the benefit is only to go around the overhead of discussing with the el devs?
