00:04:57	Mario Vega:	gm
00:05:03	lightclient:	gm
00:05:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Gm
00:05:56	nixo:	gm ğŸŒ
00:06:01	Alexey:	gm
00:08:27	Trent:	Morning all
00:09:28	pk910:	watchtower restarted a a few nodes due to image updates.  might be related, but not sure
00:10:25	Barnabas:	ethpandaops/lighthouse:pawanjay176-blocks-then-columns  - lighthouse-geth-1 

rest unstable
00:10:48	pawan:	Sounds good, thanks
00:11:18	pawan:	Yes please
00:11:32	Barnabas:	https://grafana.observability.ethpandaops.io/d/MRfYwus7k/nodes?orgId=1&from=now-3h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-consensus_client=$__all&var-execution_client=$__all&var-network=fusaka-devnet-3&var-supernode=$__all&var-filter=ingress_user%7C%21~%7Csynctest.%2A&viewPanel=panel-34
00:11:52	pk910:	blob spamming will resume shortly :)
00:13:08	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	https://github.com/Consensys/teku/pull/9801/files#diff-2ccac92189e8015a51f5f55587e09706eaffa4ca949cbecae26e091f03eb5cdc
00:13:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://github.com/C..." with ğŸ‘€
00:13:28	pk910:	Reacted to "https://github.com/C..." with ğŸ‘€
00:13:30	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://github.com/C..." with ğŸ‘€
00:13:31	James He:	Web3signer master branch has fulu changes ( even though the remote signer repo pr hasnâ€™t been updated) so we can make sure to do some kurtosis testing with that soon. On remote signer support
00:13:35	Barnabas:	ufff
00:13:39	Barnabas:	yes we should have tested this
00:13:40	terence:	can we add this to spec test please?
00:13:41	felix (eest):	Reacted to "https://github.com..." with ğŸ‘€
00:13:49	Barnabas:	ğŸ’¯
00:14:13	pk910:	we can fill up all the queues on devnet5 before fulu activation
00:14:22	Barnabas:	Replying to "we can fill up all t..."

assertoor test?
00:14:24	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we can fill up all t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:14:59	Barnabas:	we did consolidations before, but it wasnâ€™t done during the fork boundry
00:15:23	pk910:	Reacted to "assertoor test?" with ğŸ‘
00:15:37	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "we did consolidation..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we did consolidation..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:52	Barnabas:	https://grafana.observability.ethpandaops.io/d/MRfYwus7k/nodes?orgId=1&from=now-3h&to=now&timezone=browser&var-consensus_client=$__all&var-execution_client=$__all&var-network=fusaka-devnet-3&var-supernode=$__all&var-filter=ingress_user%7C%21~%7Csynctest.%2A&viewPanel=panel-39 

Head slot not advancing for a while on some nodes. Client teams. Please take a look at your client pairs and let us know if you wanna do something about it.
00:20:20	stokes:	For devnet-5?
00:20:22	Barnabas:	assuming we find nothing crazy on devnet 3 non finality
00:20:25	Barnabas:	Reacted to "For devnet-5?" with ğŸ‘
00:20:38	stokes:	Earlier the better ğŸ™‚
00:20:45	stokes:	Reacted to "assuming we find not..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:17	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we did consolidation..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:23	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://grafana.obse..."

mainly lodestar/prysm nodes seem to be stuck
00:23:00	Fredrik:	Three weeks sounds late in case something goes bad with hoodi
00:23:21	Roman:	do we have a tentative target date when weâ€™ll decide on testnet timestamps? or is it just after devnet 5?
00:25:06	kasey:	@stokes  could you please write out a concrete devnet and release timeline if you are proposing a change? We previously talked about mainnet release on 10/1, and presumably moving things back by a week would also move that date to 10/8.
00:25:36	kasey:	Yup for ACD would be great
00:26:26	stokes:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

Iâ€™ve always proposed mainnet for 5 Nov
00:26:41	stokes:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

Oh, you are talking about releases
00:27:02	kasey:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

Yeah so were you thinking mainnnet releases 3 weeks before 11/5?
00:27:09	stokes:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

Yeah, I think assuming everything goes well along the way there 10/1 would be good for mainnet (and hood) release
00:27:33	Roman:	can the same not be achieved with trusted peers only flag?
00:27:36	stokes:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

Yeah, we have this constraint that we want a month before the fork for mainnet releases
00:27:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "can the same not be ..."

Responded on the telegram chat why thatâ€™s hard
00:27:56	stokes:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

So if we do 5 Nov for mainnet, we could do releases around 1-3 October
00:28:26	CPerezz:	Replying to "can the same not be ..."

Yep. TLDR: Enodes change between CI runs. Thus need to be updated upfront every single time
00:29:01	kasey:	Replying to "@stokes  could you p..."

Understood, ty
00:29:14	Roman:	Replying to "can the same not be ..."

letâ€™s continue on tg
00:29:34	CPerezz:	Replying to "can the same not be ..."

kk
00:31:21	CPerezz:	Replying to "can the same not be ..."

Also @Roman . Would appreciate if you could reply a bit more exhaustively in: https://hackmd.io/WUe1KgwSS3iT8xoIbDg3Ng#Questions-for-Reth. Would be really useful and is the last client team missing. 

If nothing to add, just LMK.
00:32:42	Justin Traglia:	Opt-in or opt-out?
00:32:59	Roman:	Replying to "can the same not be ..."

ammending
00:33:11	Preston Van Loon:	prysm has support for opentelemetry today
00:33:33	James He:	I think we are using open telemetry already for tracing needs , would be cool to see an option in kurtosis for tracing etc without the external setup
00:33:39	Alexey:	specific examples of tracking using ot?
00:34:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think we are using..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:35:02	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "I think we are using..."

Yeah it should be relatively straightforward for us to add support on kurtosis
00:36:40	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Besu supports OTEL today also
00:37:22	pk910:	dora should already be prepared :)
just need to update to latest gloas specs
00:37:29	terence:	Reacted to "dora should already ..." with â¤ï¸
00:37:36	terence:	Replying to "dora should already ..."

that's awesome!!
00:37:42	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "dora should already ..." with â¤ï¸
00:37:50	Barnabas:	Reacted to "dora should already ..." with â¤ï¸
00:38:08	Barnabas:	Can confirm gloas is already in latest main for ethereum package
00:38:13	Mario Vega:	Could you share the date/time of the BAL breakout here pls?
00:38:18	Toni Wahrstaetter:	yes one sec
00:38:34	Toni Wahrstaetter:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1691
00:38:39	Toni Wahrstaetter:	This is the BAL breakout
00:38:43	felipe:	Reacted to "https://github.com..." with ğŸ’¯
