WEBVTT

1
00:03:31.530 --> 00:03:32.700
Parithosh Jayanthi: Hello?

2
00:03:35.790 --> 00:03:36.310
Pooja Ranjan: Hello, huh.

3
00:03:36.310 --> 00:03:37.260
Justin Traglia: Hello.

4
00:03:39.650 --> 00:03:40.730
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Hello?

5
00:04:37.930 --> 00:04:38.730
spencer-tb: Hello.

6
00:06:29.650 --> 00:06:33.590
Parithosh Jayanthi: Hey everyone, let's give it another minute for people to join before we start.

7
00:07:18.600 --> 00:07:21.160
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, let's get started.

8
00:07:21.380 --> 00:07:30.509
Parithosh Jayanthi: So, the first item on the agenda today, is Fusaka updates. So, do we have Barnabas on the call for DevNet updates?

9
00:07:31.830 --> 00:07:45.289
Barnabas: Yes, we did a non-finality event on WN3 throughout the weekend, and this morning I have restarted all the machines that were producing bell blocks, and they're slowly syncing up back to head.

10
00:07:45.560 --> 00:07:51.029
Barnabas: Currently, we see a lower participation than before, which is quite interesting.

11
00:07:51.680 --> 00:07:52.910
Barnabas: …

12
00:07:53.130 --> 00:08:12.559
Barnabas: Right now, the major nodes that are offline still are, I guess, another mined ones, because those were pretty, in the images before. I have, here their database, and they should be able to sync back to HUD. Currently, we see about 36% participation on the network, though.

13
00:08:13.190 --> 00:08:20.630
Barnabas: Which is rather low, and it's a bit surprising that, about 20% of extra nodes have decided to

14
00:08:21.340 --> 00:08:23.970
Barnabas: Also, stop thinking.

15
00:08:23.970 --> 00:08:34.679
Parithosh Jayanthi: So, does this mean that during the non-finality period, we had about 50-ish percent participation, and then once you started all of the nodes back on, we reduced participation again?

16
00:08:34.929 --> 00:08:35.749
Barnabas: Yes.

17
00:08:38.720 --> 00:08:44.869
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, that sounds like they're not able to keep up with the sync load, right? Or is there some other prevailing theory?

18
00:08:45.210 --> 00:08:47.730
Barnabas: Mmm, yeah, that's exactly what I'm thinking.

19
00:08:48.410 --> 00:08:54.230
Barnabas: We have rate limiting enabled on all the machines, and I think, some of them are hitting that.

20
00:08:54.600 --> 00:08:55.899
Barnabas: Especially for notes.

21
00:08:57.270 --> 00:09:02.119
Parithosh Jayanthi: What's very interesting is, none of the R machines are out of sync.

22
00:09:02.240 --> 00:09:10.340
Barnabas: So, basically, right now, the network is, held up by mostly our machines, so it might also be some cloud-related issue.

23
00:09:13.500 --> 00:09:21.860
Parithosh Jayanthi: And at least according to logs, how does it look like it's going? Are the nodes progressing, or are they just struggling to find healthy peels?

24
00:09:22.410 --> 00:09:30.550
Barnabas: So, there's a bunch of nodes that are progressing still. Most of them have caught up, especially in the ES side.

25
00:09:30.630 --> 00:09:45.790
Barnabas: there's a few nodes, like Lighthouse GAF1 that have not able to get started thinking, and I think it's still the same syncing bug that Lighthouse previously reported. I'm not sure if anyone from Lighthouse is around.

26
00:09:48.410 --> 00:09:54.049
pawan: Yeah, I'm here. Yeah, I think it's the… I'm not sure if you're using the…

27
00:09:54.420 --> 00:10:03.800
pawan: other brands that I gave you on Friday, but, like, that… we found, like, a couple of issues over the weekend on that one as well, which was related to…

28
00:10:04.520 --> 00:10:16.419
pawan: like, a few bugs on our unstable branch, so we have a few fixes on unstable that we are going to merge into that branch today, and again, test if

29
00:10:16.590 --> 00:10:22.560
pawan: … stuff should work as expected, and yeah, I'll keep you in the loop.

30
00:10:22.690 --> 00:10:25.280
pawan: To… as to which branch to use.

31
00:10:25.980 --> 00:10:35.569
Barnabas: Yeah, okay. So, right now we have the blocks and columns on Lighthouse Gas 1, which is… which has stopped syncing, and we have Unstable on everything else.

32
00:10:40.290 --> 00:10:43.150
Barnabas: But you can update it to whatever you want.

33
00:10:45.480 --> 00:11:03.279
Barnabas: Yeah, so slowly the CLs are, forward syncing, but because we had a quite long non-finity, and because the forward sync is very, very slow on every single CL, it might take another few hours before we see any improvement.

34
00:11:04.320 --> 00:11:17.060
Barnabas: I… I would actually like to keep it as is right now, not really touch anything, unless we see something definitely wrong, and see if we can recover back to finally in, like, a day or two.

35
00:11:19.570 --> 00:11:26.880
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, that sounds like a good plan, and yeah, if there's any fixed images, then we should roll those out, but otherwise, I agree, I think we should…

36
00:11:27.290 --> 00:11:33.290
Parithosh Jayanthi: monitor how the nodes are going and take that data into account. What blob count are we at right now?

37
00:11:35.680 --> 00:11:39.499
Barnabas: We are on 20, I think?

38
00:11:40.460 --> 00:11:45.640
Barnabas: whatever BPO5 was, it's max blobs per block 20.

39
00:11:45.960 --> 00:11:52.859
Barnabas: But Spammer had a bug, and we are not spamming block transactions right now, but because debugging.

40
00:11:55.610 --> 00:12:00.200
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, but during the non-finality event, were we able to hit 20 blobs?

41
00:12:05.340 --> 00:12:07.590
Barnabas: I mean, we are still at the non-finity event.

42
00:12:07.930 --> 00:12:08.670
Barnabas: Yeah.

43
00:12:08.670 --> 00:12:13.009
Parithosh Jayanthi: I meant the core non-finalty went over the weekend, at least.

44
00:12:14.320 --> 00:12:16.850
Barnabas: Yeah, we can check that, but I think so.

45
00:12:16.980 --> 00:12:23.130
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, cool. Because those are the blobs that everyone would need… would sort of be struggling to fetch columns for.

46
00:12:23.130 --> 00:12:30.579
Barnabas: Yeah, so, like, even an hour ago, we had, consistent 20 blocks in the blocks that were proposed.

47
00:12:31.410 --> 00:12:34.720
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, that's a really nice test. Thank you.

48
00:12:36.110 --> 00:12:42.540
Parithosh Jayanthi: Anything else you wanted to add on that, or anything the client teams wanna talk about? Yeah, Enrico?

49
00:12:43.920 --> 00:12:48.309
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, I just want to mention that,

50
00:12:49.090 --> 00:12:58.169
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Couple of hours ago, we've discovered a bug in our, state upgrade from Elektra to Fulu.

51
00:12:58.410 --> 00:13:04.489
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And, I share the link of the PR that fixes this.

52
00:13:04.940 --> 00:13:12.400
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): It contains a couple of things, but this is the main thing. So, essentially, we missed, the…

53
00:13:12.940 --> 00:13:19.310
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): The, porting of the pending consolidation from the state of, from the later state to

54
00:13:19.520 --> 00:13:21.660
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): the Fulu State.

55
00:13:22.110 --> 00:13:23.060
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So…

56
00:13:23.300 --> 00:13:33.179
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): I think that we never tested on any testnet that across the FARC, there was actually a consolidation pending.

57
00:13:33.620 --> 00:13:39.110
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So we always started with an empty consolidation, set.

58
00:13:39.370 --> 00:13:46.160
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So maybe there is something on the spec test that needs to be addressed, or…

59
00:13:46.650 --> 00:13:49.940
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): But seems, like, serious, so we fixed it there.

60
00:13:51.210 --> 00:13:55.449
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, this definitely sounds like a spec test, right?

61
00:13:55.450 --> 00:13:57.559
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I can… I can look into this.

62
00:13:59.130 --> 00:14:05.609
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, let me know if you need more context on that, but the link should be enough.

63
00:14:08.480 --> 00:14:08.949
Parithosh Jayanthi: And I guess….

64
00:14:08.950 --> 00:14:09.700
Barnabas: So we have….

65
00:14:09.950 --> 00:14:14.999
Parithosh Jayanthi: make sure that we have at least one spec test for every one of these special requests.

66
00:14:15.270 --> 00:14:34.400
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): I was thinking, like, we should constantly… whenever there is something that moves from the status, from a state to another state, we have to always constantly testing it. Even previous introduced

67
00:14:34.480 --> 00:14:46.990
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): stuff. So not just testing what the new status is introduced in by the fork, but also all the regression possible from the previous forks.

68
00:14:47.710 --> 00:14:58.109
Justin Traglia: So, we do have fork, like, at fork testing. I'm thinking of, like, deposit requests and consolidation requests, but I'm not sure if we have, like, pending consolidation.

69
00:14:58.590 --> 00:15:01.770
Justin Traglia: At the fork, so that would be good for me to look into.

70
00:15:02.040 --> 00:15:03.849
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Probably the missing thing.

71
00:15:05.050 --> 00:15:05.810
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yep.

72
00:15:09.320 --> 00:15:11.070
Parithosh Jayanthi: Awesome. Thank you.

73
00:15:12.370 --> 00:15:17.120
Parithosh Jayanthi: Any other updates for DevNet 3 or Spec?

74
00:15:18.720 --> 00:15:22.550
Parithosh Jayanthi: And I'm assuming there'd be another spec release, right, Justin?

75
00:15:23.770 --> 00:15:24.610
Justin Traglia: Yeah, those.

76
00:15:24.870 --> 00:15:27.559
Justin Traglia: There'll be another spec release, probably.

77
00:15:27.690 --> 00:15:29.409
Justin Traglia: I don't know, a week or so.

78
00:15:30.860 --> 00:15:32.570
Barnabas: Is that gonna be an offer fix?

79
00:15:34.260 --> 00:15:37.449
Justin Traglia: I was actually thinking of doing Beta Zero.

80
00:15:37.650 --> 00:15:42.550
Justin Traglia: If this would be the one that lines up with the first testnet, … Release.

81
00:15:43.780 --> 00:15:48.300
Barnabas: Is the idea that the EPBS and net zero is gonna be based on that, too?

82
00:15:51.610 --> 00:15:52.700
Justin Traglia: Say it again?

83
00:15:53.500 --> 00:15:57.670
Barnabas: Is… is, APB as then at zero also going to be based on top of that?

84
00:15:58.320 --> 00:15:59.249
Justin Traglia: Oh, I don't know.

85
00:15:59.640 --> 00:16:01.440
Justin Traglia: I mean, could be.

86
00:16:04.940 --> 00:16:15.020
Parithosh Jayanthi: I guess it doesn't matter too much, because this is just adding tests, right? So, from a specification perspective, alpha 5 and beta 0 would be the same.

87
00:16:16.130 --> 00:16:18.619
Justin Traglia: Yeah, it doesn't really matter much.

88
00:16:18.930 --> 00:16:19.490
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yep.

89
00:16:22.990 --> 00:16:35.530
Parithosh Jayanthi: Any other updates relating to DevNets? We do have the MEV workflow working? Is there anything to report over there? Anything we're investigating?

90
00:16:36.150 --> 00:16:40.439
Bharath: Yeah, so, in terms of the workflow, yeah, last week, we were able to get the

91
00:16:40.580 --> 00:16:45.940
Bharath: Private order flow thing, we, just kind of… we have… we're able to get a resolution with that, like…

92
00:16:46.070 --> 00:16:48.939
Bharath: Basically on a high level, it looks like our builder was…

93
00:16:49.060 --> 00:16:57.820
Bharath: only retaining, like, transactions for, like, 5 blocks by default. We somehow bumped that up to, like, 10,000 blocks, and things seem to generally be fine.

94
00:16:58.810 --> 00:17:02.560
Bharath: I think the RBuilder folks also made that a configuration parameter, so…

95
00:17:02.660 --> 00:17:05.089
Bharath: Future, we don't have to modify code for that.

96
00:17:05.869 --> 00:17:16.319
Bharath: And yeah, the other good thing is, like, the RBuilder folks have launched their own builder, too, like, so we have, like, two builders submitting to the MethBoost Relay, which is nice, and generally, that's good testing.

97
00:17:16.430 --> 00:17:24.690
Bharath: Yeah, outside that, there's one thing which, Fahil from the PBS Foundation is looking into, is that,

98
00:17:24.800 --> 00:17:42.079
Bharath: So there's one issue, again, you know, it's probably worth… it's not a very serious issue, it's just that when we transition from Elektra to Fusaka, it… we are… I think there are cases where a block simulation fails with the relay. That's because I think our builder is including some…

99
00:17:42.370 --> 00:17:49.419
Bharath: pre-EIP, pre, Fusaka transactions without cell proofs,

100
00:17:49.510 --> 00:18:03.440
Bharath: This is basically an issue with the logic, like, it's filtering out blobs for certain transactions, but including the transaction… the IP4844 transactions. So, that is something, like, I think Fayel is looking into. It's not a really critical issue, because that

101
00:18:03.970 --> 00:18:08.020
Bharath: The mempool, kind of slowly, like, drains itself out of, like.

102
00:18:08.260 --> 00:18:12.710
Bharath: the, pre-Fusaka transactions without cell proofs.

103
00:18:12.890 --> 00:18:31.569
Bharath: But yeah, I think File is looking to that. Maybe I'll also spend some time later on that. But outside of that, there's not much, with the MV workflow we release, like, builder specs. We merge, like, MevBoost to main. We're looking to merge MevBoost Relay to main, but we're waiting on, like, the attestant IOPRs, like.

104
00:18:31.740 --> 00:18:33.549
Bharath: For GoBuilder Client.

105
00:18:33.970 --> 00:18:42.540
Bharath: To get merged. I think somebody from Attestant.io has started looking into it and has raised some review comments, which I've addressed. So, I think…

106
00:18:42.680 --> 00:18:52.570
Bharath: Yeah, we're looking to, like, merge everything to main, and there is that one issue which we'll… we'll see, like, how we can resolve it, or if that's even a problem at all, like, that's also not clear.

107
00:18:53.210 --> 00:18:55.620
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

108
00:18:57.600 --> 00:19:08.720
Parithosh Jayanthi: Besides this, what is the DevNet 5 plan? Do you… maybe you want to tell us what the blockers are there, Barnabas, and we can get an update from clients as to where they are?

109
00:19:10.280 --> 00:19:28.290
Barnabas: Yeah, so the main blocker would be, trunk branches and, all major features merging today trunk branches. Ideally, we wanted to do that this week, but I think, giving an extra week would make the most sense for all, design teams.

110
00:19:28.990 --> 00:19:39.660
Barnabas: And in this case, we would aim for, all major features merged into the trunk branches by this week, Friday, and then maybe we can do

111
00:19:39.890 --> 00:19:43.569
Barnabas: Devnet launch on next week, Wednesday.

112
00:19:46.690 --> 00:19:58.239
Parithosh Jayanthi: Do client teams want to chime in? Does this timeline work for you guys? Are we… do we have to change around dates? What is the… what's the general consensus?

113
00:20:08.330 --> 00:20:11.450
pawan: Sorry, did you say next week, Wednesday?

114
00:20:12.270 --> 00:20:12.700
Barnabas: Yeah, of course.

115
00:20:13.530 --> 00:20:16.039
pawan: Yeah, that's… that seems good for us.

116
00:20:22.480 --> 00:20:25.020
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yes, this is for DevNet 5.

117
00:20:29.940 --> 00:20:34.680
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, it seems like most, if not all, clients have

118
00:20:34.850 --> 00:20:40.160
Parithosh Jayanthi: agreed to that. If for any reason you guys feel like we're missing something, then…

119
00:20:40.440 --> 00:20:50.499
Parithosh Jayanthi: Please reach out to us, and then we can still modify the timelines, but it takes a few days' worth of preparation to get these networks up, especially if it's over a couple thousand nodes.

120
00:20:50.640 --> 00:20:54.499
Parithosh Jayanthi: So it would be nice if we know well in advance of time,

121
00:20:55.080 --> 00:20:56.969
Parithosh Jayanthi: If we have to change our plans.

122
00:21:00.720 --> 00:21:09.540
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, the next agenda item is, one from Alex. Do you want to talk about the temp check?

123
00:21:11.060 --> 00:21:13.220
stokes: Yeah, sure. …

124
00:21:13.760 --> 00:21:28.539
stokes: This ties in a bit with timing, for Sokka, and yeah, I guess one thing we could do here is couple the hoodie release with the mainnet release, and I just wanted to make sure that was okay with everyone.

125
00:21:29.000 --> 00:21:31.559
stokes: Rather than have, like, a distinct mainnet release.

126
00:21:31.850 --> 00:21:35.829
stokes: It would just help us pipeline things a bit, and compress.

127
00:21:36.120 --> 00:21:38.319
stokes: Otherwise, what would just be some downtime?

128
00:21:40.710 --> 00:21:42.469
stokes: Anyone have any issues with that?

129
00:21:44.370 --> 00:21:49.950
stokes: like, we have precedent for having test next coupled, and I feel like we've done this before, where it's…

130
00:21:50.090 --> 00:21:53.179
stokes: say a testnet and mainnet, but I just wanted to make sure.

131
00:21:56.350 --> 00:22:03.470
pawan: what would be the gap between the actual hoodie folk time and mainnet folk time? Is that the same, or like.

132
00:22:03.470 --> 00:22:07.619
stokes: Yeah, that's a good question. So…

133
00:22:07.880 --> 00:22:13.220
stokes: I think the exact dates are gonna depend a bit on how, like, the next few weeks go with the DevNets and…

134
00:22:13.630 --> 00:22:16.500
stokes: say, Sepulia and Holushki?

135
00:22:16.880 --> 00:22:21.219
stokes: But yeah, I think I was thinking something…

136
00:22:21.850 --> 00:22:26.849
stokes: Okay, so we have this invariant of having a month between the release and mainnet.

137
00:22:27.090 --> 00:22:30.209
stokes: I think we could have hoodie somewhere in between that month.

138
00:22:30.610 --> 00:22:34.269
stokes: So then, to answer your question, yeah, something like 2-3 weeks.

139
00:22:39.740 --> 00:22:46.089
pawan: I think in that case, like… like you said, it would depend on how the other testnet folks go, like, if…

140
00:22:46.880 --> 00:22:55.559
pawan: Yeah, if the other testnet folks go pretty smoothly, then I think we'd be a little more confident to have, like, a smaller gap, otherwise…

141
00:22:55.960 --> 00:22:58.440
pawan: Yeah, we would maybe want to have a bigger gap.

142
00:23:05.510 --> 00:23:06.760
stokes: Yeah. Okay.

143
00:23:10.920 --> 00:23:19.519
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, yeah, I guess we're going to be discussing this more and more over the next couple of weeks and months, so… yeah, this was a September check.

144
00:23:20.350 --> 00:23:23.460
Parithosh Jayanthi: Any other Fusaka topics?

145
00:23:26.170 --> 00:23:39.369
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think Roman's asking, do we have a tentative target date on when we decide testnet timestamps? Do we do this after DevNet 5, or do we want to do so, earlier than DevNet 5? What is our blocker here?

146
00:23:45.060 --> 00:23:47.690
stokes: To me, it's mainly DevNet 5, so…

147
00:23:47.830 --> 00:23:53.100
stokes: If DevNet5 goes well, we can also do this, like, BPO analysis. We wanted to do it with DevNet4.

148
00:23:53.490 --> 00:24:04.450
stokes: That should give us numbers we feel comfortable with for mainnet, which we would then also use for all the testnets. So, assuming DevNet 5 goes well, then we can look to schedule Holushki and Sepolia.

149
00:24:04.860 --> 00:24:06.439
stokes: I think pretty soon after that.

150
00:24:08.630 --> 00:24:15.910
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, that sounds reasonable. I think we'll try and have the DevNet 5 analysis up as soon as possible after.

151
00:24:16.100 --> 00:24:18.969
Parithosh Jayanthi: I think Sam's already working on a lot of the…

152
00:24:19.220 --> 00:24:28.650
Parithosh Jayanthi: the Jupyter notebooks, etc, so that once the data is there, it should be quite straightforward to plug in the data and then get an analysis out.

153
00:24:32.640 --> 00:24:41.619
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, and we were also talking about reducing the amount of time between BPOs for DevNet 5, so it won't take a week-long testnet, but it might be a bit shorter.

154
00:24:41.830 --> 00:24:47.549
Parithosh Jayanthi: But yeah, I'm… I think we'll release a full spec for DevNet 5 and so on over the course of the week.

155
00:24:50.590 --> 00:24:55.349
Justin Traglia: Do you have an idea of what the time between BPO work should be? Like, 12 hours?

156
00:24:55.350 --> 00:25:09.660
Parithosh Jayanthi: 8 hours. I think about 12-ish hours, sounds reasonable, and then we do want to collect some data with MEV as well, so maybe 12 hours plus another few hours of MEV worth of data, MEV-style data, and then so on.

157
00:25:10.400 --> 00:25:12.289
Justin Traglia: Sure. Yep, that sounds good.

158
00:25:19.310 --> 00:25:33.089
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think Casey's asking for potentially a written, DevNet and release timeline, but maybe that can be, for all core devs on ETH R&D, or somewhere where we can discuss it a bit more async?

159
00:25:34.650 --> 00:25:43.680
stokes: Yeah, I can put something in the next few days somewhere, and definitely, yeah, we'll discuss by this week's ACD.

160
00:25:44.370 --> 00:25:47.689
stokes: Well, yeah, let's discuss there. But I'll get something async before that.

161
00:25:49.140 --> 00:25:50.850
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, thank you.

162
00:25:51.510 --> 00:25:54.100
Parithosh Jayanthi: Any other Fusaka-related topics?

163
00:25:57.120 --> 00:26:03.520
Parithosh Jayanthi: Were there any other bugs on the DevNet last spec clarifications we needed to get checked out?

164
00:26:08.860 --> 00:26:20.030
Justin Traglia: There was a typo in the most recent release, one of the new configuration variable names. I posted a comment about it on Discord, but just know it'll be fixed in the next release.

165
00:26:23.300 --> 00:26:25.609
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

166
00:26:27.290 --> 00:26:34.459
Parithosh Jayanthi: Next topic on the agenda is, gas limit and bloatnet slash Performance DevNet updates.

167
00:26:35.270 --> 00:26:51.589
Parithosh Jayanthi: So we have an update from the sync test. We're able to get sync tests running well on Geth as well as Bezu. Both of these clients also offer a flag similar to a required block, which has been very helpful on these smaller shadow folks in terms of finding peers.

168
00:26:52.620 --> 00:27:11.360
Parithosh Jayanthi: The others are struggling to either find peers or maintain their peers, so it would be great if Nethermine, Wrath, and Aragon could provide us with a similar flag. We flagged this in the state floor channel as well, but if for some reason you're not on the channel, or you want to discuss this, then, …

169
00:27:11.480 --> 00:27:16.860
Parithosh Jayanthi: yeah, please DM someone from the PandaOps team, and we'll put you in the right channels.

170
00:27:20.520 --> 00:27:30.340
Parithosh Jayanthi: And is someone on the Bezu team here who wants to talk about 60 million gas update? I see that they had a comment on the PM repo about it.

171
00:27:34.400 --> 00:27:50.229
Luis Pinto | Besu: Yeah, I can share some updates. So, we've noticed that we are highly impacted by the divisions, so Maude, Steve, and we are working on that. We've tried, …

172
00:27:50.360 --> 00:28:08.640
Luis Pinto | Besu: couple things, to avoid, a big overhaul, but I think we are gonna have to, do the NUTS implementation from scratch in Java, avoiding all the libraries, so, yeah, we're working on it, right now.

173
00:28:09.570 --> 00:28:16.389
Luis Pinto | Besu: And… I had some more updates from Simon.

174
00:28:16.580 --> 00:28:20.910
Parithosh Jayanthi: Could you clarify which, library you're talking about?

175
00:28:20.910 --> 00:28:23.790
Luis Pinto | Besu: The big integers, Java library.

176
00:28:24.110 --> 00:28:25.220
Parithosh Jayanthi: Got it, okay.

177
00:28:25.410 --> 00:28:26.030
Luis Pinto | Besu: Yep.

178
00:28:26.280 --> 00:28:29.630
Luis Pinto | Besu: We… we have some kind of… we have a bit of, …

179
00:28:29.760 --> 00:28:47.920
Luis Pinto | Besu: memory churn, object churn, because of the big integer, which we would like to avoid to… to make things faster. So we… we need to do, arithmetics directly on the… on the, on the bytes, or, or primitive arrays, basically.

180
00:28:50.680 --> 00:28:56.039
Luis Pinto | Besu: N… Just give me a second, I have a… I had an update from Simon.

181
00:28:57.150 --> 00:28:59.640
Luis Pinto | Besu: which I'm trying to… look for…

182
00:29:04.070 --> 00:29:08.120
Luis Pinto | Besu: Yeah, so he says also that there's no EC recovery issues.

183
00:29:09.310 --> 00:29:13.630
Luis Pinto | Besu: … Yeah, and so we're working on this, …

184
00:29:13.800 --> 00:29:20.310
Luis Pinto | Besu: on these benchmarks that now run EAST opcodes, or, test cases.

185
00:29:20.620 --> 00:29:25.220
Luis Pinto | Besu: Which we hadn't had a chance to run on our benchmarking.

186
00:29:26.060 --> 00:29:32.389
Luis Pinto | Besu: … And next, unblocking 6 million gas, by improving EC ads.

187
00:29:32.560 --> 00:29:46.410
Luis Pinto | Besu: We also need to work on that, but it's now less urgent given the other problems that we have with more basic opcodes, like division, and so on.

188
00:29:47.230 --> 00:29:50.850
Luis Pinto | Besu: Yeah, that's pretty much it, what he passed along.

189
00:29:51.450 --> 00:30:01.859
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect. Thank you. And do we have someone from the Geth team who wants to talk about maybe their bottlenecks, or would they prefer to do that async later?

190
00:30:05.400 --> 00:30:12.329
Marius van der Wijden: I can quickly talk about it. We haven't… like, the big one, the only big one is Modex.

191
00:30:12.680 --> 00:30:18.050
Marius van der Wijden: And we haven't, resolved our strategy, how to move forward with it.

192
00:30:18.170 --> 00:30:26.800
Marius van der Wijden: We have 3 different ideas. Either we go with, with, GMP, Or we, …

193
00:30:27.000 --> 00:30:31.429
Marius van der Wijden: We make a proposal to update the standard library.

194
00:30:31.610 --> 00:30:36.740
Marius van der Wijden: Or we pick some of the edge cases in our own code.

195
00:30:37.640 --> 00:30:45.880
Marius van der Wijden: All of these three different ideas have different drawbacks, and we are still debating, how to go forward with it.

196
00:30:46.730 --> 00:30:49.840
Marius van der Wijden: But it should… We should at least…

197
00:30:49.980 --> 00:30:57.860
Marius van der Wijden: resolve which way to go forward, this week, and then we're… depending on the strategy chosen.

198
00:30:57.980 --> 00:31:04.469
Marius van der Wijden: It would take, us a bit to… to get there. But it's also…

199
00:31:05.580 --> 00:31:10.029
Marius van der Wijden: I think the general consensus is we don't feel like…

200
00:31:10.480 --> 00:31:14.750
Marius van der Wijden: ModeX is something that will keep us from reaching 60 million.

201
00:31:15.520 --> 00:31:16.690
Marius van der Wijden: At this point.

202
00:31:19.760 --> 00:31:22.940
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, thank you for the update.

203
00:31:23.920 --> 00:31:35.510
Parithosh Jayanthi: And next on the list is, Carlos, do you have any updates or anything you want to talk about, relating to state growth? Or would you prefer to do that next week?

204
00:31:37.910 --> 00:31:50.260
CPerezz: Yeah, not much to that from my… I just came back from out of office today, so yeah, not much to say now. Working on all of the test cases we already defined, and waiting on…

205
00:31:50.410 --> 00:32:01.390
CPerezz: Ref to… to get back to us on the questions we have for client teams, such that we can complete all of the test cases, and we can move forward with implementing as much as possible.

206
00:32:02.610 --> 00:32:04.500
Parithosh Jayanthi: Perfect. Thank you.

207
00:32:07.470 --> 00:32:10.890
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, the next topic was, …

208
00:32:11.200 --> 00:32:17.959
Parithosh Jayanthi: I wanted to get a temp check on clients' opinions on tools like OpenTelemetry.

209
00:32:18.070 --> 00:32:31.410
Parithosh Jayanthi: So, one of the things we've been noticing is it's getting extremely hard to, sort of, deduce data just from pure Prometheus metrics, or from logs. Both of those are not very easy to do any data-driven analysis.

210
00:32:31.500 --> 00:32:45.049
Parithosh Jayanthi: Especially if you're going down more on the performance optimization route, it might make sense for us to have a standard system, something similar to OpenTelemetry that clients implement, and we can ingest and use that as a comparison point.

211
00:32:45.170 --> 00:33:00.060
Parithosh Jayanthi: It's completely opt-in. I would assume that it's even disabled by default, and we just run them on the performance images, as and when required, but it could also be something that's never merged into master, but lies in the performance branches of clients.

212
00:33:00.620 --> 00:33:11.359
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, we just wanted to get a temp check on how this is, how plants feel about this. It could also be very useful for the future when we're talking about gas repricing.

213
00:33:11.750 --> 00:33:13.919
Parithosh Jayanthi: In terms of, …

214
00:33:14.090 --> 00:33:27.920
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, figuring out if we've actually priced the gas correctly according to all the clients. Like, benchmarks are sort of treating it like a black box, but OpenTelemetry would give us actual data from each client as to how the performance is.

215
00:33:29.240 --> 00:33:38.239
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I know that Prism has OpenTelemetry already, and wanted to know if, yeah, other clients have opinions on this.

216
00:33:45.440 --> 00:33:52.250
Parithosh Jayanthi: To Alexi's point, we can maybe compile some examples, or do you have something? Yeah.

217
00:33:52.760 --> 00:33:59.519
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, I don't think we have an example directly right now, but we can share some on OrcoDevs and maybe…

218
00:33:59.740 --> 00:34:01.990
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, see how clients feel about it there.

219
00:34:09.100 --> 00:34:09.900
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay.

220
00:34:10.790 --> 00:34:18.599
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, we'll talk about that async then. The next topic on the agenda was, …

221
00:34:18.929 --> 00:34:26.130
Parithosh Jayanthi: EPBS update? Do we have someone from the EPBS working group who can give us an update on how things are going?

222
00:34:30.239 --> 00:34:36.020
terence: POTUS is not here. I guess I can give a quick update. So, …

223
00:34:36.139 --> 00:34:47.470
terence: Let's see, so this Friday, first of all, this Friday, there's a breakout call, so highly encourage you people to join the breakout call if you're working on EPBS, or looking at Glemson Day in general.

224
00:34:47.620 --> 00:34:50.079
terence: Other than that, …

225
00:34:50.210 --> 00:34:59.880
terence: I have been mostly focused on, consensus spec tests and consensus spec update on EPBS side.

226
00:34:59.910 --> 00:35:03.989
terence: And, the… currently, the SPAT tests have pretty good

227
00:35:03.990 --> 00:35:20.239
terence: not pretty good coverage, but struggling to have coverage on just basic, like, SSC structures, so you can run SSE spat tests. There are a few, like, open questions where I'm still resolving that it's just, like, some of the renaming things.

228
00:35:20.240 --> 00:35:24.109
terence: Making sure the fields are in the right position and stuff like that.

229
00:35:24.110 --> 00:35:39.099
terence: I don't want to, like, go over them so much in detail, because, like, it's still relatively early-ish, but then I do think, like, this will be brought up in the EPBS breakout code, if you want to pay attention to… if you… if you want to follow those.

230
00:35:39.100 --> 00:35:59.519
terence: But yeah, but currently, I think most of the focus on just getting this back in the right stage that, like, a client can start implementing it, and, which I do believe client can start experimenting it already and give feedback, because, like, Tagu and Prism already had a finalized DevNet earlier this year, and then, other than that, yeah, it's basically just fact changes, so yeah.

231
00:35:59.920 --> 00:36:02.059
terence: Happy to take any questions, feedback.

232
00:36:06.150 --> 00:36:13.639
Parithosh Jayanthi: Cool. Is there anything you guys feel like you need from a testing or tooling point of view, or is everything okay there?

233
00:36:14.550 --> 00:36:34.130
terence: In terms of tuting, I think once we have some prototy stuff then running, we definitely need tooling just making sure DORA can show, like, the right page, making sure, like, for example, like, 4K, the four choice, also can consider, like, the notions of, like, an empty slot, for example.

234
00:36:34.130 --> 00:36:52.309
terence: And I think there will be a lot of tuning, like, a lot of tuning, like, needs to be updated. I think it may be good to start thinking about this, like, what type of tooling may be affected in the EPBS land. But yeah, definitely a lot.

235
00:36:52.310 --> 00:36:56.739
terence: And, yeah, I think it's probably good to start sooner or later.

236
00:36:58.290 --> 00:37:02.509
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, cool. I think we can put that on our plate for once.

237
00:37:02.960 --> 00:37:06.870
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, probably in the next month, we should be able to start looking into it.

238
00:37:08.490 --> 00:37:13.979
Parithosh Jayanthi: Do we have Tony or someone else for an update for block-level access lists?

239
00:37:16.030 --> 00:37:17.399
Toni Wahrstaetter: Yes, I'm here.

240
00:37:18.400 --> 00:37:25.729
Toni Wahrstaetter: Yeah, quick update, we have a breakout call on Wednesday, 2PM UTC, so…

241
00:37:26.150 --> 00:37:30.430
Toni Wahrstaetter: For everyone interested, please show up. The main topics will be

242
00:37:30.630 --> 00:37:34.839
Toni Wahrstaetter: some final discussions about the scope of the EAP, and also then getting into

243
00:37:35.000 --> 00:37:41.099
Toni Wahrstaetter: testing, specs, and yeah, how to get to a definite.

244
00:37:43.620 --> 00:37:57.180
Parithosh Jayanthi: Cool. I think we merged in support slash have support for Glamsterdam fork activation on our Genesis tools, so it should work on Kurtosis as well, in case you guys are ready for local testing.

245
00:38:03.690 --> 00:38:04.920
Toni Wahrstaetter: Perfect, yakra.

246
00:38:06.680 --> 00:38:12.419
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, Sunnyside Labs, do you guys have an update? Do you want to share anything?

247
00:38:14.180 --> 00:38:28.420
Minhyuk Kim: Now, we don't have any reports this week, but we, our current work is, analyzing some issues with Perfect PureDesk Network, so we have a few issues that we have identified in a few clients and are communicating

248
00:38:28.570 --> 00:38:40.159
Minhyuk Kim: directly with the client teams. And another thing that we are working on is we are building a chaos testing tool to try to stress the network in a more aggressive way, so…

249
00:38:40.220 --> 00:38:49.740
Minhyuk Kim: Like, in addition to applying stress to, like, RAM or CPU, you're also adding features like, splitting the network into half.

250
00:38:49.990 --> 00:38:57.699
Minhyuk Kim: And Trying to see if the network progresses as usual after merging the network back in.

251
00:38:57.840 --> 00:39:05.450
Minhyuk Kim: So if you guys have any specific chaos testing scenarios or things you guys would like to test, you can

252
00:39:05.640 --> 00:39:08.860
Minhyuk Kim: try to simulate it in our DevNets.

253
00:39:12.520 --> 00:39:18.240
Parithosh Jayanthi: Awesome. Thank you, really looking forward to those PRs and awesome job with the chaos testing stuff.

254
00:39:19.940 --> 00:39:27.110
Parithosh Jayanthi: We have an open floor now in some time, so are there still any open topics that people want to bring out?

255
00:39:36.120 --> 00:39:45.850
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, last call… And… if not, then that's it for today. Thank you all for joining.

256
00:39:47.440 --> 00:39:48.230
Justin Traglia: Bye, everyone.

257
00:39:50.830 --> 00:39:51.569
Andrew Ashikhmin: Thank you.

258
00:39:53.010 --> 00:39:53.569
Fredrik: Thanks, bud.

259
00:39:53.570 --> 00:39:54.000
Mario Vega: Thank you so much.

260
00:39:54.000 --> 00:39:54.969
Marius van der Wijden: Gosh, bye.

261
00:39:55.720 --> 00:39:56.260
lightclient: too.

