00:05:45	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	gn gn
00:07:19	Barnabas:	looks like we are back to pre ACDT rename numbers
00:07:51	Barnabas:	We need to have more controversial topics to discuss to attract more people? EOF for fusaka anyone?
00:08:01	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "We need to have more..." with ğŸ˜…
00:08:02	Francesco:	Replying to "looks like we are ba..."

More governance power per person
00:08:04	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We need to have more..." with ğŸ˜…
00:08:05	Will Corcoran:	I believe the calendar invite still notes this call as â€œPectra Interop Testingâ€
00:08:06	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "We need to have more..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Oh thank you! We can fix that post call
00:08:28	Ben Adams:	Replying to "We need to have more..."

EOF was quite close; could add it back ;)
00:08:31	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "We need to have more..." with ğŸ˜…
00:08:38	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "We need to have more..." with ğŸ˜…
00:08:39	Pooja Ranjan:	We are live
00:08:40	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "We need to have more..." with ğŸ˜…
00:08:41	Barnabas:	Reacted to "EOF was quite close;..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "We need to have more..."

I will if you will ğŸ™‚
00:08:43	Francesco:	Replying to "I believe the calend..."

On my calendar it is â€œAll Core Devs Testing - ACDTâ€
00:08:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://ethpandaops.io/posts/eip7691-retrospective/
00:09:22	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I believe the calend..."

Testing All Core  Devs
00:10:20	Will Corcoran:	Replying to "I believe the calend..."

Yep, you are correct - that was just the one that was added to my personal cal a few months back.
00:10:53	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Was looking on metrics on nethermind and all good
00:11:04	Barnabas:	should we signal first to 48M then to 60M ?
00:12:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think a 48M step is unnecessary unless we think there are interesting network effects to learn by stopping there.
00:14:10	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	If it's true that the max CL size is 2.5 mib, then we can hit the 10min limit at 65m. 60m should be safe.
00:18:32	Barnabas:	https://github.com/probe-lab/eth-das-guardian
00:18:37	Barnabas:	just became open source a few hours ago
00:18:58	Manu:	Reacted to "https://github.com/p..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:02	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "https://github.com/p..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:03	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "https://github.com/p..." with ğŸ”¥
00:19:05	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "https://github.com/p..." with ğŸ”¥
00:19:26	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "https://github.com/p..." with ğŸ”¥
00:20:24	Will Corcoran:	Wasnâ€™t the spec convo about Val Cust punted from ACDC to this call?
00:20:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t the spec conv..."

yup
00:20:33	chanderprakash sharma:	GM GM
00:20:44	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "yup" with ğŸ‘
00:20:47	Barnabas:	Reacted to "yup" with ğŸ‘
00:21:51	Barnabas:	Can we aim for full impl by devnet 1?
00:21:51	Francesco:	Just to make sure, has everyone seen this? https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4320/files
00:22:32	Francesco:	Replying to "Just to make sure, h..."

This is the PR
00:25:55	Barnabas:	Justin should be on his way to the call now
00:26:05	Agnish Ghosh:	yeah
00:26:08	Agnish Ghosh:	it's a good spec
00:26:09	Justin Traglia:	Hello
00:26:10	Agnish Ghosh:	right
00:26:24	Barnabas:	Replying to "Hello"

We are talking about https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4320/files
00:26:29	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We are talking about..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:30	Agnish Ghosh:	i wasn't aware this was merged
00:26:34	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Hello"

Do you mind talking through this change justin?
00:26:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Hello"

I can call on you next
00:26:42	Manu:	Replying to "i wasn't aware this ..."

same
00:27:03	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Hello"

Sure
00:27:07	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Hello"

What questions are there?
00:27:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	@Francis is your point for this topic or can I call on you next?
00:27:30	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Hello"

I think present and see if there are CL questions since they werenâ€™t aware
00:28:11	Agnish Ghosh:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4320/

with this, i'm more confident about network stability
00:28:19	Agnish Ghosh:	thanks
00:28:21	Barnabas:	Replying to "i wasn't aware this ..."

is there something we could do, to communicate future spec changes better?
00:28:39	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‰
00:28:43	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "i wasn't aware this ..."

we did discord threads, what's better than that
00:29:50	Francesco:	Replying to "i wasn't aware this ..."

Yeah it was a public discussion just a bit buried in a thread in peerdas-testing, should have tagged people in the main channel
00:30:36	Barnabas:	They should just run with supernode flags @Manu
00:31:18	Agnish Ghosh:	for multi BN setups its better to be a supernode
00:31:53	Agnish Ghosh:	we can change to MAY NOT
00:32:11	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Iâ€™d vote for MAY NOT too
00:32:28	Agnish Ghosh:	yes
00:33:01	Agnish Ghosh:	point we did implement it, thinking twice before throwing it away :D
00:33:04	Francis:	Replying to "@Francis is your poiâ€¦"
should be fine, agree with the new spec
00:33:19	marek:	Replying to "If it's true that th..."

Does "max CL size" mean overhead by CL fields in the block size?
00:33:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "If it's true that th..."

Its max amount of cl data that could possibly exist, imagine tons of attester slashings
00:34:18	chanderprakash sharma:	What are the pros and cons of shifting to a static custody model?
00:34:49	marek:	Reacted to "Its max amount of cl..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:55	kasey:	Validator registration via beacon api
00:36:54	pawan:	Replying to "Validator registrati..."

Is this the mev registration api or something else?
00:37:52	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‰
00:39:01	James He:	Replying to "Validator registrati..."

Itâ€™s actually the /eth/v1/validator/prepare_beacon_proposer  endpoint that Manu mentioned , validator registration is only builder path. We have a metric on that endpoint being called
00:39:57	kasey:	Replying to "Validator registrati..."

My mistake. I was referring to /eth/1/validator/register_validator. I thought we used the registrations created as a result of calling this, but per James this is only called when using the builder.
00:40:10	RaÃºl Kripalani:	i think custody groups are calculated from node ids, right?
00:40:14	RaÃºl Kripalani:	not from actual validators?
00:40:43	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "not from actual vali..."

That is as it initially worked, however there is a heuristic on top that says that if you have more validators you custody more
00:40:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "not from actual vali..."

Thatâ€™s the validator custody topic weâ€™re talking about now
00:41:23	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "not from actual vali..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/dev/specs/fulu/validator.md#validator-custody
00:41:43	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "not from actual vali..."

perfect, that's what i was looking for
00:41:47	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "not from actual vali..."

thanks!
00:41:57	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "thanks!" with â¤ï¸
00:42:01	Agnish Ghosh:	ok
00:42:19	pawan:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s actually the /e..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:38	Agnish Ghosh:	MAY is good
00:42:43	Justin Traglia:	Yup letâ€™s do MAY
00:42:54	Barnabas:	Replying to "Yup letâ€™s do MAY"

can you do a PR?
00:42:57	Francesco:	Agree with taking it offline
00:43:02	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Yup letâ€™s do MAY"

Yes, I will
00:43:04	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "Agree with taking it..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
00:43:12	Barnabas:	can we do may functionality with devnet 1 next monday?
00:43:17	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Agree with taking it..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
00:43:19	RaÃºl Kripalani:	yep, agree, MAY as a backstop awaiting a final solution
00:43:20	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "can we do may functi..." with ğŸ™‚
00:43:25	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "can we do may functi..."

whip
00:43:34	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "can we do may functi..." with ğŸ”¥
00:43:34	Barnabas:	Reacted to "whip" with ğŸ˜®â€ğŸ’¨
00:43:49	Will Corcoran:	I
00:43:49	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Yes, I will" with ğŸ‘
00:44:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "yep, agree, MAY as a..."

whats the final solution?
00:44:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7917
00:44:21	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with ğŸ‰
00:44:30	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "yep, agree, MAY as a..."

for validator custody, clarifying any extra heuristics that need to be added
00:44:35	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "yep, agree, MAY as a..."

(if any)
00:44:37	Barnabas:	Heads up everyone, we plan to launch devnet 1 next monday, 9th of June!
00:44:43	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Heads up everyone, w..." with ğŸš€
00:44:48	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "Yup letâ€™s do MAY" with ğŸ‘
00:44:48	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with ğŸ‰
00:44:55	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4190
00:45:02	Barnabas:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-devnet-1
00:45:10	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Heads up everyone, w..." with ğŸš€
00:46:07	pawan:	Can you link the PR @Justin Traglia ?
00:46:11	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Heads up everyone, w..."

We need to make an eest release before then, we have open PRs for both new EIPs, so will try to prepare the release asap
00:46:18	Justin Traglia:	Yeah 2 messages up
00:46:22	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

here
00:46:36	pawan:	Reacted to "Yeah 2 messages up" with ğŸ‘
00:46:39	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Can you link the PR ..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4190
00:47:16	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Besu on track
00:47:18	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-7825.md
00:47:21	Justin Traglia:	Also want to mention that weâ€™re going to make a CL specs release on Tuesday: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4346
00:47:28	Barnabas:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7918
00:47:31	Ben Adams:	Nethermind on track
00:47:42	Roman:	Reth same
00:47:45	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

can implement by end of this week, i _may_ not make it to Berlin tho :(
00:47:57	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Erigon is on track
00:48:42	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Erigon is on track" with ğŸš€
00:48:46	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Reth same" with ğŸš€
00:48:50	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Nethermind on track" with ğŸš€
00:48:51	Agnish Ghosh:	Nimbus eth 1 update btw: on track with 7918, currently testing fusaka devnet 0 action items
00:49:02	Agnish Ghosh:	particularly bpo
00:49:17	pawan:	Can you link the PR @RaÃºl Kripalani ?
00:49:39	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Can you link the PR ..."

https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9840
00:49:44	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Can you link the PR ..."

There is no CL specs PR yet
00:50:21	Barnabas:	How many devnets do you guys want lol
00:50:27	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "How many devnets do ..." with ğŸ¤£
00:50:28	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4346
00:50:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "How many devnets do ..."

Uint64 max
00:50:37	nixo:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:50:41	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:50:41	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:50:44	nixo:	Reacted to "How many devnets do ..." with ğŸ¤£
00:50:46	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "How many devnets do ..."

anything is ok :)
00:50:47	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:50:48	marek:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:50:50	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:50:51	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:51:36	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	besu implements it
00:51:41	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Uint64 max" with ğŸ’¯
00:52:25	Agnish Ghosh:	okay
00:52:30	Will Corcoran:	@J Sunnyside Labs wanted to note the need for getBlobsV2 metrics for EL sideâ€¦.
00:52:52	Barnabas:	@Justin Traglia do we wanna keep bpo fork schedules for all future forks ? Including fulu? Esp if we wonâ€™t backfill for electra/deneb
00:53:05	J Sunnyside Labs:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1252403418941624532/1374373828691497064
00:53:22	Agnish Ghosh:	gotta run, catching up offline :)
00:53:28	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "gotta run, catching ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:54:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i'm unclear what the ask is for ELs
00:55:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	ty!
00:56:03	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://testinprod.notion.site/Sunnyside-Devnet-Updates-05-30-Internal-2008fc57f54680ea81cde6acaa6d55fc
00:57:07	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Heads up everyone, w..." with ğŸš€
00:57:11	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "We need to make an e..." with ğŸ™
00:58:43	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "@Justin Traglia do w..."

Nah, I donâ€™t think we should include fulu here, unless itâ€™s different than electra. But thatâ€™s not the plan.
00:59:49	pawan:	Might have been captured in a different metric
01:01:52	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Nah, I donâ€™t think w..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "@Justin Traglia do w..."

What about on the EL side?
01:02:10	Barnabas:	Replying to "@Justin Traglia do w..."

should blob schedule list osaka as a field?
01:05:55	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	ğŸ‘
01:05:58	Will Corcoran:	Sounds good
01:06:00	Marius:	Yep
01:06:05	Leo:	ğŸ‘
