00:15:50	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:15:51	Yassine Ferhane:	Gm
00:15:57	Chris Haug:	gm
00:16:00	christophschlegel:	gm
00:16:18	Kalo | Obol:	gm
00:16:22	Mehdi Aouadi:	gm
00:16:41	Pierre-Louis:	gm gm
00:16:52	Christine Kim:	gm
00:16:59	nixo:	gm
00:17:05	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1825
00:18:46	RaÃºl Kripalani:	p2p team released a first batch of daily notebooks: https://ethp2p.github.io/notebooks/ more coming soon
00:19:45	Åukasz Rozmej:	@Potuz
why not save in async?
00:19:52	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Should be fine to attest and store async
00:20:07	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Attestation duty != custody duty
00:20:33	Pawan Dhananjay:	Havenâ€™t heard any attestation degradation reports on LH. But I doubt any of our users donâ€™t use decently fast ssds
00:20:36	Åukasz Rozmej:	if you validated it you DO want to be async
00:20:41	Dustin:	It's more that until the columns are processed, the block isn't valid
00:21:31	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "It's more that until..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:00	Manu:	Itâ€™s more than serving.
What about if you attest for a block and save columns async, and the client has a bug preventing it to save columns into disk?

In this case, the data is unavailable, while we voted for the given block
00:23:20	Dustin:	then you don't have them
00:23:27	Manu:	Reacted to "then you don't have ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:27	Dustin:	until they have been persisted
00:23:48	Satyajit:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s more than se..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:00	Manu:	Exactly. Thatâ€™s why IMO we should not declare these columns as available before clearly persisting them to storage
00:24:18	Manu:	(And so, declare the block as available, and vote for this block)
00:24:18	Dustin:	It's not about the status message, only
00:24:35	Manu:	Reacted to "It's not about the s..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:05	Potuz:	+1 Dustin
00:25:25	Carl Beekhuizen:	do we have an idea of what is meant when we say these nodes have a slower disk? what kind of disk? any idea of how many nodes?
00:25:50	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

I know of one userâ€™s disk, just a sec
00:26:03	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I know of one userâ€™sâ€¦" with ğŸ™
00:26:32	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

SAMSUNG 870 QVO SATA III SSD 2TB
00:26:33	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

This failed
00:26:35	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

And
00:26:42	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

Moving to this fixed
00:26:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

QVOâ€™s are very slow.
00:26:43	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

SAMSUNG 970 EVO Plus SSD 2TB NVMe M.2
00:26:54	Barnabas:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

QVOs can be slower than HDDs
00:26:58	stokes:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/2025-upgrade-process-retrospective/27082?u=nixo
00:26:59	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

The point is that this node was performing perfectly since genesis
00:27:05	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

And started failing at Fulu
00:27:14	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

SATA SSD considered to slow? ğŸ˜±
00:27:21	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

Regardless of having a slower disk, the requirements clearly changed for this node
00:27:31	Potuz:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

And I have a few others impacted by the same
00:27:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

QVO SSDâ€™s are considered to be slow. Not all SATA SSD is created equal.
00:28:33	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

Max SATA speed, 100k IOPS, looks good to me: https://www.techpowerup.com/ssd-specs/samsung-870-qvo-2-tb.d17
00:29:32	Barnabas:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

As soon as your SLC cache is exhasted your writes speeds will go down to sub 70MBps
00:29:51	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "do we have an idea oâ€¦"
also we require nvme drives in 7870. but in general we should have better resolution on the ssd requirements here
00:29:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "As soon as your SLC ..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:53	Barnabas:	Replying to "do we have an idea o..."

max IOPS advertisments are a scam when we are talking about QLC type storage
00:29:54	alex (ultra sound):	good summary ğŸ‘
00:30:21	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "max IOPS advertismenâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:30:28	Fredrik:	I propose we include trustless payments
00:30:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:37	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:40	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:40	Poulav:	Reacted to "I propose we inclu..." with â•
00:30:41	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:41	terence:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:42	Fredrik:	Reacted to "I propose we includeâ€¦" with â•
00:30:43	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:43	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:44	brunoflashbots:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:46	James He:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:48	Satyajit:	Reacted to "I propose we inclu..." with â•
00:30:55	christophschlegel:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:30:57	Milos:	Reacted to "I propose we inclu..." with â•
00:30:59	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:31:05	soispoke:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:31:08	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "also we require nvme..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:14	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:31:16	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:31:17	hangleang:	Reacted to "I propose we inclu..." with â•
00:31:27	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:31:35	Caleb:	Reacted to "I propose we inclu..." with â•
00:32:24	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "I propose we inclu..." with â•
00:32:29	saulius:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:33:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	alex makes a good point, warrants addition to the retro thread on eth mag
00:33:33	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:33:34	Francesco:	Q: there are still proposed modifications to this part of the spec. How long do we expect we need to agree on a final version?
00:33:36	Barnabas:	I think we have already slowed down, and cycled back to this topic 2/3 weeks after we have made a decision.
00:33:38	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "alex makes a good ..." met â•
00:33:43	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Q: there are still pâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:33:54	Bharath:	Reacted to "I propose we include..." with â•
00:34:05	alex (ultra sound):	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

can i find them somewhere?
00:34:06	hangleang:	Reacted to "Q: there are still..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think at this point it is likely too late to revisit the decision, at some point it needs to be final.

I will say though, as a point of criticism of the EIP champions, given how important a headliner is, I found remarkably little willingness to consider adjustments earlier into the process. That was a failure in my opinion.
00:34:52	nflaig:	if we wanna ship the fork fast I think we should split it out into H* and also allow more feedback on the design, if we wanna ship in Glamsterdam we should consider all feedback and take into account that shipping the fork might take longer
00:35:06	alex (ultra sound):	existing ecosystem will be disrupted to some extent i think. still researching what itâ€™ll mean exactly but i foresee some real work to be done before we settle in a new equilibrium for how most bids are sourced.
00:35:12	hangleang:	Replying to "Q: there are still..."

the sooner we can freeze the spec, the better
00:35:19	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "alex makes a good po..." with â¤ï¸
00:35:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I think at this poin..."

thats a tough assertion to make. I saw the same, but didn't feel that adjustments were not fairly considered.
00:36:30	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

At least a few weeks from today, given the holidays. There are some things weâ€™d like to explore like staked builders without validator duties so they can make faster deposits. But I would consider these to be optimizations/improvements.
00:36:33	Dustin:	Replying to "I think at this po..."

I thought Potuz was remarkably open to contributions/changes
00:36:33	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "thats a tough assert..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:48	Dustin:	Replying to "I think at this po..."

It's been ongoing for literally years now
00:36:53	Caleb:	Reacted to "I thought Potuz wa..." with â•
00:36:53	gd:	Reacted to "At least a few wee..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:56	James He:	Reacted to "I thought Potuz was ..." with â•
00:37:01	brunoflashbots:	Reacted to "I thought Potuz was ..." with â•
00:37:02	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "I thought Potuz was ..." with â•
00:37:12	Potuz:	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

These are big changes though
00:37:25	terence:	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

what changes here?
00:37:41	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "I thought Potuz was ..." with â•
00:37:48	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "These are big change..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:50	christophschlegel:	Replying to "I think at this poin..."

Potuz presented at Flashbots and was very open to our opinion. Seems just that MEV ecosystems and devs operate on different timelines.
00:38:03	Francesco:	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

It doesnâ€™t feel like we should be exploring things at this stage though?
00:38:15	Francesco:	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

This is exactly why this part of the EIP should have been split up btw...
00:38:29	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "These are big change..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:44	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "This is exactly why ..." with ğŸ˜…
00:39:32	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Q: there are still p..."

Weâ€™re trying to work with builders to make things better for them. Compromises.
00:39:54	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think this is a fair case, but seems like it is an iterable impovement
00:40:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i.e. ePBS 1.1 in a later release
00:40:30	Justin Traglia:	Call out for the next ePBS breakout call: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1835
00:40:56	Trent:	Reacted to "i think this is a fa..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:57	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "This is exactly why ..." with ğŸ˜…
00:40:58	Francesco:	In Fusaka we spent ~a month discussing getBlobsv2 versus v3, which was a tiny decision. I am worried that this will drag on, especially since itâ€™s not an isolated decision, it affects builders, it touches a few things in the spec etc...
00:41:00	Potuz:	Reacted to "i think this is a fa..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:05	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "i think this is a fa..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:06	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "At least a few weeks..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:24	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "i think this is a fa..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:32	Trent:	Reacted to "In Fusaka we spent ~..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:41	Quintus Kilbourn:	Taking away the 32 eth minimum and allowing deposits to go faster keep capital requirements down which is good for keeping the market easy to participate in

The only other major thing to say is that we really should do as much as possible to avoid using p2p for bidding (great for WW3 but undesirable for everything else)
00:41:42	Francesco:	I am sure weâ€™ll sort it out eventually, just doesnâ€™t seem like a small thing
00:41:50	Potuz:	Replying to "In Fusaka we spent ~..."

My general take on these things is to by default not change things like this big when they are already in motion, but at least we want to be exploring how bad of a change it would be
00:41:59	Potuz:	Replying to "In Fusaka we spent ~..."

It could be this fork or the next one to iterate over this
00:42:00	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "In Fusaka we spent ~..."

There was also the new transaction type, with cell proofs instead of blob proofs. That happened pretty late into the process, no?
00:42:01	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "Taking away the 32 e..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:05	christophschlegel:	Reacted to "Taking away the 32 e..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:20	kasey:	Reacted to "I thought Potuz was ..." with â¤ï¸
00:42:23	Francesco:	Replying to "In Fusaka we spent ~..."

That happened a few months before Pectra went live
00:42:35	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "That happened a few ..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:50	gd:	Reacted to "Taking away the 32..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:14	Trent:	Bump for @Ansgar Dietrichs to reaccess after dropping
00:43:35	Potuz:	Replying to "Taking away the 32 e..."

I think we want to have a decentralized set of p2p bids, they arenâ€™t really a problem for the proposer cause theyâ€™ll get just a few of them already heavily filtered
00:43:55	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think we want to h..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:47	gd:	I think as long as there is an alternative path to validators p2p is fine. p2p becomes a bit more of a concern if it is the only option to reach a large enough portion of the stake
00:46:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	so that framing is assuming that the door is closed to FOCIL in Glamsterdam.
00:47:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "so that framing is a..." 

 Which is reasonable, imo. ePBS and BALs are both big features and we shouldn't do 3 big features in one fork.
00:48:26	nixo:	itâ€™s not â€˜process for the sake of processâ€™ - client teams have indicated support for focil in glamsterdam but the rest of the ecosystem hasnâ€™t really had the opportunity. they need a â€˜processâ€™ to know how to participate
00:48:41	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "so that framing is a..."

i agree, but disagree that we can't take more time on a fork. i'm not sold on the 6th month cadence being inviolable.
00:48:42	Trent:	Reacted to "itâ€™s not â€˜process fo..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:45	Bharath:	Reacted to "I think as long as t..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:21	nixo:	imo FOCIL should be CFIâ€™d and then we should set this heka(?) timeline definitively so thereâ€™s clarity
00:49:44	Francesco:	Replying to "I think at this poin..."

Two things are true imo:
Potuz (and Terence and others) did a great job at engaging with all kinds of stakeholders repeatedly, over a long period of time.
Earlier in the decision process, the discussion became more charged than it should have been because people felt that trustless payments would either get in now (on the wave of epbsâ€™ scalability features) or never (similar dynamics to FOCIL). People saying that trustless payments could be split from the other features and raising concerns around complexity were ignored or treated as lacking Ethereum values
00:50:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I personally would be open to FOCIL sfi now - but I donâ€™t think it would be appropriate to assign it headliner status before starting the headliner process. That would be unfair to other potential headliner proposals.

In practice ofc good chance we then decide there is no room for a(nother) CL headliner, but that should be during a proper headliner scoping process.
00:50:23	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "Two things are true ..." with ğŸ‘€
00:50:27	soispoke:	Replying to "I personally would b..."

So SFI FOCIL as a non headliner?
00:50:30	Trent:	I dont know if we need to argue the benefits of FOCIL (or any other specific EIP) right now, weâ€™re talking about the process
00:50:42	Potuz:	Reacted to "I dont know if we ne..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I personally would bâ€¦"
SFI without assessment of whether headliner
00:50:54	Greg K |Lido:	Reacted to "I personally would..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:57	soispoke:	Reacted to "SFI without assessme..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:59	soispoke:	Reacted to "I personally would b..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:00	terence:	Reacted to "I dont know if we ne..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:01	Greg K |Lido:	Reacted to "SFI without assess..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:02	Justin Florentine (Besu):	one users censorhip is another users whitehat rescue
00:51:11	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I dont know if we ne... with "ğŸ‘"
00:51:14	Francesco:	Replying to "I think at this poin..."

(And to be clear I am not saying that this was all on Potuz or someone, itâ€™s partially just the governance dynamics that can turn unhealthy when something is contentious)
00:51:18	Potuz:	FWIW, that paper doesnâ€™t talk about FOCIL but MCP
00:51:30	Potuz:	The assumptions on FOCIL are different ğŸ™‚
00:51:33	terence:	Yes
00:51:36	terence:	It's very different
00:51:38	Vukasin:	Reacted to "I dont know if we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:44	nixo:	Replying to "I personally would b..."

the first SFI is the headliner status
00:51:44	Dustin:	Yeah, I don't think right now the argument was, is FOCIL good or not?
00:51:48	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "(And to be clear I a..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:58	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "I dont know if we ne..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:00	Dustin:	There wasn't really disagreement about that part
00:52:04	Potuz:	Except Matt ğŸ™‚
00:52:10	Lorenzo:	Reacted to "Two things are tru..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:13	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "The assumptions on F..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I personally would bâ€¦"
Itâ€™s less of a bending of process to change that than to decide to skip an entire headliner process
00:52:53	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Feels like the majority agrees that focil has merits. 
This doesn't change the fact that glamsterdam is already big and that we should stick to the process to give other eips the same chance as focil in heka.
00:53:30	nixo:	Replying to "I personally would b..."

i donâ€™t understand your message
00:53:36	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "Two things are true ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:37	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "Feels like the major..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:45	Francesco:	Replying to "I personally would b..."

The process is a few months old, so not exactly sacred, and at the end of the day the process serves Ethereum goals, not itself. Still, SFIng something before the headliner process makes the headliner process fairly meaningless
00:53:47	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "I personally would b..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:55	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Feels like the major..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:58	nixo:	Reacted to "The process is a few..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:58	donnoh | L2BEAT:	the takeway i wanted to give is that i dont think we should SFI until we properly understand the benefits and right now we dont ğŸ˜…
00:55:09	Dustin:	Yeah, also I think we'd already agreed that it's nto in Glamsterdam, that's not the point of contention anymore
00:55:16	Barnabas:	I have really bad deja vu about FOCIL discussion.
00:55:23	soispoke:	Reacted to "I have really bad de..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:32	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "There wasn't really ..." 

 We should also involve rollups in the discussion who will not get CR from focil, or at least flag it publicly that blobs won't be supported.
Same for starks that are too big to fit into ILs.
Talking to people, this isn't clear to many.
00:55:33	Dustin:	It's literally, is it CFI or SFI
00:55:34	Dustin:	that's t
00:56:13	Potuz:	Do we have a timeline set for the headliner process? Tim had posted for Gloas a list of dates up until when the headliner would be accepted for being proposed, when discussions started, etc.
00:56:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "We should also invol..." with ğŸ’¯
00:56:32	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Do we have a timelin..." 

 Process-wise, january?
00:56:32	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	To me the clear take-away from last ACDC was that clients should decide whether to SFI FOCIL for Heka on this ACDC. Why change this now? Letâ€˜s just do this.
00:56:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	But we considered it very seriously as a non headliner for Glamsterdam as of 2 calls ago
00:56:56	Potuz:	Replying to "Do we have a timelin..."

If weâ€™re talking about a couple of weeks then itâ€™s probably a waste of time anyway to decide anything now?
00:57:01	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "To me the clear take..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:02	nixo:	Replying to "Do we have a timelin..."

https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-8081-heka-bogota-network-upgrade-meta-thread/26876
00:57:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "But we considered itâ€¦"
I do agree it will likely end up as a headliner. Thatâ€™s fine. No need to make that decision today
00:57:11	Potuz:	Reacted to "To me the clear take..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:14	Ladislaus:	Hat auf "To me the clear take..." mit ğŸ‘ reagiert
00:57:18	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "If weâ€™re talking abo..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:20	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "To me the clear take..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:29	nflaig:	FOCIL is orders of magnitude simpler than peerdas or epbs so I think it can definitely be a non headliner
00:57:31	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "To me the clear take..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "But we considered it..."

sorta. i think that consideration hinges very much on a non 6-month cadence.
00:57:33	Francesco:	That is something I agree with though, the headliner process is a bit weird with things like FOCIL
00:57:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "FOCIL is orders of mâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:57:42	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "FOCIL is orders of m..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:50	soispoke:	Reacted to "FOCIL is orders of m..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:57	Potuz:	Replying to "Do we have a timelin..."

Oh thanks Nixo, I looked in forkcast instead ğŸ˜…
00:58:03	sean:	can we do FOCIL + shorter slots?
00:58:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "But we considered itâ€¦"
Right, but as of 2 calls ago that seemingly was a price we were potentially willing to pay
00:58:09	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "FOCIL is orders of m..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:21	soispoke:	Reacted to "Right, but as of 2 c..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "can we do FOCIL + sh..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:23	Francesco:	Reacted to "FOCIL is orders of m..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:24	Vukasin:	Reacted to "FOCIL is orders of..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:32	Potuz:	Replying to "can we do FOCIL + sh..."

I honestly disagreed with Pari here, I think FOCIL+shorter slots is even harder than FOCIL+ePBS
00:58:47	NC:	Replying to "FOCIL is orders of m..."

I donâ€™t think a headliner candidate is weighted by its technical complexity but the influence it brings
00:58:48	soispoke:	FOCIL is definitely not as big as ePBS though
00:59:07	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "can we do FOCIL + sh..." 

 I feel like we shouldn't, with regards to complexity
00:59:10	Potuz:	Reacted to "FOCIL is definitely ..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "But we considered it..."

yes, and so that would be the process point we should be discussing
00:59:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Replying to "There wasn't really ..."

itâ€™s not only starks but some fraud proof system bisection steps can also be very big
00:59:39	sean:	basically SFI'ing FOCIL without it being explicit about what we're giving up is basically the problem with doing it early

people def want shorter slots and we would be avoiding that discussion
01:00:04	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "basically SFI'ing FO..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:17	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "There wasn't really ..." 

 Right, should we sfi anything before those affected (by not being able to use it) are at least aware?
01:00:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "basically SFI'ing FO..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:28	Mehdi Aouadi:	SFI it now and do the headliner process. If FOCIL is selected as headliner , fine, otherwise let it be just SFIâ€™ed with another headliner. At least that way we will be carefull while selecting the hadliner if not FOCIL
01:00:36	soispoke:	Reacted to "SFI it now and do th..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:36	Fredrik:	How much time are we talking of between now and being able to SFI according to the process?
01:00:41	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "SFI it now and do ..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:46	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "SFI it now and do thâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:00:46	stokes:	Replying to "How much time are we..."

A few weeks
01:00:50	nflaig:	Reacted to "SFI it now and do th..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:53	Ladislaus:	Hat auf "SFI it now and do th..." mit ğŸ‘ reagiert
01:00:58	soispoke:	Replying to "SFI it now and do th..."

Yeah exactly
01:01:06	Potuz:	Replying to "How much time are we..."

Yeah that was my question above, I think this all may be a waste of time if in a couple of weeks weâ€™ll be discussing anyway
01:01:21	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Yeah that was my que..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "But we considered itâ€¦"
Well yes, but I would argue not today as part of Glamsterdam scoping. We should keep the process deviation minimal. CFI or SFI FOCIL for H* today, then have the conversation about headliner status and 6-month cadence during the H* headliner process we will start soon
01:01:31	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Yeah that was my que..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:40	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "basically SFI'ing FO..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:03	sean:	Replying to "SFI it now and do ..."

I was just trying to get at, you can't do this with some EIPs if another one is complicated enough, for example shorter slots people don't think is possible
01:02:09	Marc:	Reacted to "SFI it now and do thâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:02:13	sean:	Replying to "SFI it now and do ..."

you can't really make the decision in isolation
01:02:16	Francesco:	Given that most people do want FOCIL to be included and thereâ€™s this history etcâ€¦ and the headliner process is soon, why not just follow the process and select it in a few weeks that way though, rather than bending the process?
01:02:32	terence:	Reacted to "Given that most peop..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:35	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Given that most peop..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:35	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Given that most peop... with "ğŸ‘"
01:02:40	Francesco:	(At the moment it also seems clear that it is much farther than 6SS in maturity, so it seems hard to imagine that this is not what we end up with in a few weeks)
01:02:42	Barnabas:	Can we timebox FOCIL pls?
01:02:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "SFI it now and do thâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:02:43	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "Given that most peop..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:44	Trent:	We are again edging into retrospective discussions about process over the last few weeks instead of moving forward

Can we agree to just start the broader process ASAP?
01:02:47	Potuz:	To me the bulliest case of FOCIL I have heard is that the current censors want it so that they can stop censoring
01:02:47	Trent:	Reacted to "Can we timebox FOCIL..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:01	soispoke:	Reacted to "To me the bulliest c..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:04	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Can we timebox FOCIL..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:13	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "Given that most peop..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:15	Mario Havel:	FOCIL is something really worth committing to and should not become a victim of the process we are still discovering
01:03:18	Subhasish:	Reacted to "To me the bulliest..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:18	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "We are again edging ..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:21	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Given that most peop..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:23	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "Can we timebox FOCIL..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:23	soispoke:	Reacted to "FOCIL is something r..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:31	Milos:	Reacted to "FOCIL is something..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:40	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "To me the bulliest..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:45	Milos:	Reacted to "To me the bulliest..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	It has the size of a headliner and we've closed glamsterdam. 
The next step would be doing the headliner process in a few weeks and see where we land by then.
01:04:28	terence:	TIL:  txns from the public mempool that are included in some blocks, 17% are not in the winning block. (https://x.com/soispoke/status/1999095871435137396 )
01:04:32	Vukasin:	Reacted to "FOCIL is something..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:36	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "FOCIL is something r..." 

 That's your take. Others will say differently or have different priorities
01:04:53	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "That's your take. Otâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:04:56	soispoke:	Replying to "TIL:  txns from the ..."

Caveat dataset is small but yeah was surprised by this as well
01:04:57	Mehdi Aouadi:	Replying to "SFI it now and do th..."

that reasoning doesnâ€™t take into account that FOCIL already got more support than any new EIP, has a working prototype and has already been discussedâ€¦ Itâ€™s unfait to just forget everything and reset the process
01:05:03	soispoke:	Reacted to "that reasoning doesn..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:24	Francesco:	Replying to "SFI it now and do th..."

These things are still true though, and why very likely FOCIL will be selected
01:05:25	sean:	We can put resources into it regardless of SFI status
01:05:28	Cayman Nava:	imo focil can't make additional engineering progress until its rebased on ePBS (likely lines up with headliner process?)
01:05:42	felipe:	Reacted to "Feels like the maj..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:43	Francesco:	Replying to "SFI it now and do th..."

Itâ€™s not that in a few weeks we forget that it has a lot of support and mature specs etcâ€¦
01:05:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "To me the bulliest c..." 

 Yeah, bc we shift responsibility to validators. You should talk to them too.
01:06:01	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "We can put resources..."

thats not generally realistic, existing SFI'd features tax teams.
01:06:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "imo focil can't make..." with â•
01:06:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	So seems like we have 3 options:
â€‹CFI
SFI without deciding whether headliner
SFI as headliner
01:07:00	soispoke:	I think the same arguments were said for Glamsterdam: we all like FOCIL but we donâ€™t want to include it now
01:07:01	terence:	Side comment: FOCIL on top of epbs may not be as simple as ppl think. The forkchoice part is the biggest complexiity. Epbs add the notion of empty payload slot so when focil reorg, it needs to consider parent hash as well
01:07:16	sean:	Replying to "We can put resourc..."

Usually SFI'd stuff is further along tbf.. but we've already had Eitan on our team implement it and I'm sure he'd love to keep pushing it
01:07:23	alex (ultra sound):	Reacted to "So seems like we hav..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:24	soispoke:	Reacted to "So seems like we hav..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:46	nflaig:	Replying to "It has the size of a..."

how is "size" defined here, in terms of LoC it's tiny (~2,5k) compared  to other headliners like peerdas which was 20k+ LoC
01:08:08	Francesco:	Replying to "I think the same arg..."

I think the clear message is that we do want to include it now (for H*, as a headliner) though
01:08:10	Pawan Dhananjay:	Replying to "We can put resources..."

Tbf, 6 second slot is heavier on the testing side than implementation side
01:08:13	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "It has the size of a..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:18	Trent:	Can we please timebox
01:08:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "We can put resources..."

huh, see i see the fact that multiple clients have focil impls means it should be SFId to reflect reality
01:08:20	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "TIL:  txns from the ..."

I donâ€™t trust those stats. Certainly not reflective of what Iâ€™ve seen. Unless these are just late tx or 0 fee spam.
01:08:27	stokes:	Replying to "Can we please timebo..."

Yes, Matt and then thatâ€™s that
01:08:50	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "Side comment: FOCIL ..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:08	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Yeah, bc we shift re..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:22	soispoke:	Weâ€™ve been discussing for 5 months though
01:09:35	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "TIL:  txns from the ..."

Would be curious to look at our internal stats.
01:09:40	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ve been discussin..." with ğŸ˜«
01:09:41	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "It has the size of a..." 

 Touches both layers, adds extra deadlines, complex, many small "hacks"  (no blobs, no fraud proof support (too large, no stark support). Those things add up.
01:09:49	sean:	Replying to "We can put resourc..."

there's a 6s impl too though
01:10:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	So how are we going to make the decision today?
01:10:12	Jihoon:	Replying to "Side comment: FOCIL ..."

Good point, it's something we want to keep in mind. But still it doesn't change that FOCIL is probably the most mature and well-researched EIP among headliner candidates
01:10:24	soispoke:	Reacted to "So how are we going ..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:27	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Touches both layers,..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:03	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "So seems like we hav..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:04	nixo:	+1, â€˜processâ€™ should be independent of what we want, thatâ€™s the only way we have a good process. we canâ€™t adjust the process based on what specific features we want in the next fork, that creates a bad process
01:11:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ should..." with â•
01:11:23	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ should..." with â•
01:11:48	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	6ss is "easy" to implement but needs time to do proper analysis, e.g. around geo decentralization. 
6ss is as far as focil when it comes to understanding technical impact.
What is needed is more analysis.
01:12:02	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ should..." with â•
01:12:08	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "6ss is "easy" to imp..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:11	Pierre-Louis | Chainbound:	Reacted to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ sh..." with â•
01:12:30	Poulav:	Reacted to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ sh..." with â•
01:12:42	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "6ss is "easy" to imp..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:19	NC:	Replying to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ should..."

True, but take into account that this process is relatively new and there is room to improve the process. Generally agree your point
01:13:26	Trent:	IMO it was a mistake to try and poll client teams as a way to get this early "credible commitmentâ€

Mistakes were made. Start the process
01:13:32	sean:	Reacted to "IMO it was a mista..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:33	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "+1, â€˜processâ€™ shouldâ€¦" with â•
01:13:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	If we SFI without headliner decision, we are only telling the community "heads up, next fork the CL side will have less room for changes, so take that into consideration when you participate in the public scoping process" - thatâ€™s fine imo, much better than "sorry, headliner was already secretly pre selected"
01:13:38	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "IMO it was a mistake..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:50	Pawan Dhananjay:	Replying to "We can put resources..."

Yeah exactly, implementing 6s on a client doesnâ€™t say much in terms of having it â€œreadyâ€
01:14:06	Milos:	Reacted to "If we SFI without ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:08	soispoke:	Reacted to "If we SFI without he..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:09	Greg K |Lido:	Reacted to "If we SFI without ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:11	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "If we SFI without he..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:14	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Yeah exactly, implem..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:17	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "If we SFI without heâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:14:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Tbf, 6 second slot i..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:33	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "6ss is "easy" to imp..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:45	Marc:	Reacted to "If we SFI without heâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:14:53	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Agree with matt. We shouldn't exploit loopholes in the process, sidestepping it, or turn this (technical) decission into what is happening right now
01:15:01	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Agree with matt. W..." met ğŸ‘
01:15:07	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Agree with matt. W..." met â•
01:15:07	Poulav:	Reacted to "If we SFI without ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:08	Jihoon:	Replying to "We can put resources..."

As a person who has built the 6s prototype, I don't think we understand 6s's technical impact as much as FOCIL. Unlike FOCIL, 6s has the nature that we should analyze 2nd and 3rd order impact similar to EIP-7549. Having running prototype that is running in a "local" environment doesn't really tell us much on its technical impact.
01:15:17	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "Agree with matt. We ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:23	sean:	Like are we afraid discussion in the future will yield a different result?
01:15:33	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "As a person who has ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:36	wolovim:	Reacted to "Like are we afraid dâ€¦" with â˜ï¸
01:15:41	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Like are we afraid d..." with â˜ï¸
01:15:50	nixo:	we have to make a CFI or SFI decision??
01:16:17	Barnabas:	Replying to "we have to make a CF..."

we will do headliner selection in the new year
01:16:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	DFI
01:16:27	Francesco:	Replying to "Like are we afraid d..."

Thatâ€™s the concern, which is reasonable given how unpredictable ACD as a forum is ğŸ˜… However all of these discussions are just accumulating â€œevidence for the futureâ€
01:16:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	but heka soon
01:16:32	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "IMO it was a mistake..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:39	soispoke:	So no CFI or SFI?
01:16:42	soispoke:	For Heka
01:16:42	Dustin:	so not CFI?
01:16:48	Barnabas:	I donâ€™t think it matters
01:16:50	Barnabas:	lets just move on
01:16:59	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Like are we afraid d..." with â˜ï¸
01:17:01	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "lets just move on" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:17:16	Potuz:	+1 Nixo
01:17:20	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "lets just move on" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:17:20	soispoke:	Reacted to "+1 Nixo" with ğŸ‘
01:17:26	NC:	Reacted to "+1 Nixo" with ğŸ‘
01:17:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "+1 Nixo" with ğŸ‘
01:17:33	Barnabas:	Lets go.
01:17:34	Milos:	In my opinion, CFI/SFI for Heka doesn't mean much. If Headliner is something else, it can cause FOCIL to be DFI-ed from Heka as well (e.g. due to complexity)
01:17:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	sounds perfectly cromulent
01:17:40	Dustin:	This is pretty disingenuous relative to the claim made a couple of weeks ago
01:17:46	soispoke:	Reacted to "This is pretty disin..." with ğŸ‘
01:17:49	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "In my opinion, CFI/S..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:02	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Does CFI need EL teamsâ€™ confirmation?
01:18:08	Milos:	Replying to "In my opinion, CFI..."

To clarify, I support FOCIL as headliner.
01:18:14	felipe:	Reacted to "lets just move on" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:18:17	soispoke:	Replying to "Does CFI need EL tea..."

They were supportive of SFI last ACDE
01:18:19	Pawan Dhananjay:	I thought it was CFId already
01:18:23	kingy_sigp:	Lighthouse supports CFI until we do headliner discussion
01:18:29	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "They were supportive..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:31	Francesco:	Replying to "I thought it was CFI..."

Yeah wasnâ€™t it?
01:18:40	soispoke:	Replying to "I thought it was CFI..."

I thought it was
01:18:42	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "In my opinion, CFI/S..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Besu CFI'd focil in G*, same for H*
01:19:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Does CFI need EL teaâ€¦"
EL teams also were a bit tired of constant ping pong with ACDC, so I think they would prefer a decision today
01:19:11	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Yeah wasnâ€™t it?" with ğŸ‘
01:19:27	sean:	Replying to "Like are we afraid..."

if changes require consensus I don't get how a different result is even a bad result. in theory more people should be involved in January
01:19:32	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "Yeah wasnâ€™t it?" with ğŸ‘
01:19:41	Poulav:	Reacted to "I thought it was C..." with â•
01:19:43	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	SFI would be too early. People want shorter slots too. And saying we delay CR features - as we _always_ do - is wrong. It's barely a one year old eip.
01:19:55	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Can we check, are the people that preferred SFI okay with CFI as a compromise?
01:20:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

no
01:20:06	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "SFI would be too ear..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:07	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

We need to move on
01:20:09	nixo:	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

no
01:20:10	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We need to move on" with ğŸ‘
01:20:12	Louis:	Reacted to "We need to move on" with ğŸ‘
01:20:17	nixo:	Reacted to "We need to move on" with ğŸ‘
01:20:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "We need to move on" with ğŸ‘
01:20:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Can we check, are thâ€¦"
Well check as in, check here in chat
01:20:47	Potuz:	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

No, but it seems that weâ€™re not going to be able to agree on SFI today, so CFI is the best option we have
01:20:54	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

i'm confused because we spent a lot of time talking about adhering to process, and I guess PFIs are open for Heka now?
01:21:17	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Well either way - welcome CFIâ€™d FOCIL to H*! ğŸ™‚
01:21:20	Potuz:	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

Yes, PFI had never a start date AFAIK
01:21:29	Etan (Nimbus):	7688 implementation complexity due diligence:
https://github.com/user-attachments/files/24103859/7688.pdf
01:21:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Can we check, are th..."

good enough I'll take it
01:21:43	wolovim:	Reacted to "good enough I'll takâ€¦" with ğŸ˜†
01:21:43	Potuz:	Mic dao
01:21:44	terence:	micdao
01:22:12	Justin Florentine (Besu):	fiber-to-the-mic dao
01:22:34	Barnabas:	Time to get out of the tunnel Etan
01:22:38	nixo:	ğŸ™ etan, itâ€™s so bad that itâ€™s impossible to understand
01:22:39	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Reacted to "Time to get out of t..." with ğŸ˜†
01:22:43	kingy_sigp:	For 7688 we think it is not insignificant in terms of scope but is worthwhile including. Lighthouse would support its inclusion in glamsterdam.
01:22:46	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Time to get out of t..." with ğŸ˜†
01:22:54	nixo:	Reacted to "Time to get out of t..." with ğŸ˜†
01:22:56	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Reacted to "For 7688 we think it..." with â¤ï¸
01:23:07	Dustin:	Reacted to "For 7688 we think ..." with â¤ï¸
01:23:10	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "For 7688 we think it..." with â•
01:23:11	Leo:	Reacted to "Time to get out of..." with ğŸ˜†
01:23:14	Barnabas:	any other CL teams?
01:23:14	NC:	Reacted to "For 7688 we think it..." with â•
01:23:16	Etan (Nimbus):	last slide of the pdf
01:23:22	Cayman Nava:	Lodestar would support inclusion in glamsterdam (with the asterisk that it drop if it causes fork delays)
01:23:24	Dustin:	Nimbus supports, obviously
01:23:24	NC:	Lodestar supports
01:24:03	Greg K |Lido:	Lido supports 7688 (SFI)
01:24:05	Etan (Nimbus):	Replying to "Time to get out of t..."

joining from a hotel lobby...
01:24:22	Barnabas:	@Potuz is prysm pro inclusion ?
01:24:26	Etan (Nimbus):	in any case, let me write here
01:24:31	Dustin:	+1 to Potuz's point
01:24:36	Francesco:	Reacted to "good enough I'll tak..." with ğŸ˜†
01:24:57	Etan (Nimbus):	no serialization change (network / db same), only hashing change
length checks move to the p2p rules
01:24:58	Barnabas:	Can we have a prysm stance on this by end of this call?
01:25:09	saulius:	Grandine suggests to attempt inclusion of 7688 in later devnet-3/4 when it will be clear that there is room for it in Glamsterdam.
01:25:14	Etan (Nimbus):	tests are on par with existing SSZ
tests for new max length also exist
01:25:19	Barnabas:	I donâ€™t understand how we donâ€™t have a teamâ€™s stance on each open EIP at this point
01:25:40	Dustin:	Replying to "Grandine suggests ..."

There weren't that many devnets targeted for Fusaka, they failed so there was a devnet 5/6
01:25:49	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	I think we should go for it
01:25:54	Mario Vega:	Wait is this EL? no, right?
01:25:54	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "I think we should go..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:58	Dustin:	Replying to "Grandine suggests ..."

that's extremely late
01:25:59	Etan (Nimbus):	itâ€™s CL
01:26:04	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "itâ€™s CL" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:26:11	Dustin:	Reacted to "I think we should ..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:16	nflaig:	Reacted to "I think we should go..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think we should go..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:27	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t understand h..." with ğŸ˜…
01:26:33	Dustin:	How is the current process "fast"? EIP-7688 has been around for years
01:27:01	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Wait is this EL? no,..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:30	Greg K |Lido:	I had the impression that Prysm supports 7688 (see ACDC - NOv 13th): https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1790#issuecomment-3524246616
01:27:57	terence:	prysm team supports EIP-7688 per team agreement: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1790#issuecomment-3524246616 
but i do echo Cayman's feedback that we should drop it there's extensive delay
01:28:11	Dustin:	Reacted to "prysm team support..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:23	Cayman Nava:	It's trivial to remove for Lodestar. We have changes in the client segregated to the types ProgressiveContainer -> Container
01:28:32	Etan (Nimbus):	yeah itâ€™s quite self-contained imo, mostly in library
01:28:34	Subhasish:	Reacted to "Grandine suggests ..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:08	Etan (Nimbus):	also, letâ€™s use #ssz channel to discuss any tech challenges about it
01:30:09	Potuz:	Yes they are separate
01:30:13	Potuz:	They have no intersection now
01:30:37	Francesco:	I am here
01:31:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Fidelity?
01:31:34	kingy_sigp:	lighthouse supports 8080
01:31:52	Dustin:	sure, 8080 is fine
01:32:09	Barnabas:	is any CL team against CFI 8080?
01:32:42	Potuz:	We support it if people agree with the WSP decrease safety assumptions.
01:32:55	saulius:	Replying to "Grandine suggests to..."

devnet-2 works too :)
01:32:56	kingy_sigp:	At this time we don't support 8061 as adjustments to consensus code are non-trivial. If there are specific advantages people want from 8061 we would want to see them because at the moment it doesn't seem worth it to us.
01:33:06	Francesco:	It doesnâ€™t come from anywhere, itâ€™s a magic number like the previous number ğŸ˜… I donâ€™t know about this fidelity thing though
01:33:08	Cayman Nava:	I had thought that the existing ws period at 2 weeks mirrors our "worst case" timeline for coordinating around bad network conditions
01:33:17	Potuz:	Reacted to "It doesnâ€™t come from..." with ğŸ¤£
01:33:25	Francesco:	To be clear I wrote the EIP, without input from fidelity or whoever
01:33:33	NC:	Regarding shorter WS period, we should ask the broader community because they run the nodes and whether 7 days is enough for them
01:33:42	saulius:	Replying to "Grandine suggests to..."

I just want to get all the clients interoping on devnet-1 with epbs first.
01:34:12	stokes:	Replying to "To be clear I wrote ..."

Yes, im just calling attention to this comment

https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1825#issuecomment-3640072332
01:34:22	Barnabas:	I think we should CFI the EIP, and bikeshed the exact value
01:34:33	Potuz:	Reacted to "I think we should CF..." with ğŸ‘
01:34:36	Dustin:	Replying to "To be clear I wrot..."

Right, I'm not saying Fidelity was involved in writing the EIP
01:34:38	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should CF..."

I agree
01:34:40	Francesco:	Reacted to "Right, I'm not sayin..." with ğŸ‘
01:34:45	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "I had thought that t..."

IIRC, it also mirrored around how long we kept blobs around for as well.
01:34:46	Francesco:	Replying to "To be clear I wrote ..."

Yeah just wanted to clarify
01:35:34	Francesco:	The main advantage is not having a 40 day withdrawal queue ğŸ˜„ In combination with 8080, it would be like 5 days or something
01:35:42	Francesco:	Replying to "The main advantage i..."

(With current amount of eth in the queue)
01:35:59	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think we should CF..." with ğŸ‘
01:36:49	Francesco:	Also consider that the benefits are actually greater for home stakers or anyway stakers other than LSTs and staking pools, because the in-protocol exits is all they have
01:37:11	Barnabas:	SFI is when we we have them on devnets
01:37:18	Barnabas:	thats probably still at least a month away
01:37:29	Francesco:	Reacted to "I think we should CF..." with ğŸ‘
01:38:02	Potuz:	Reacted to "IIRC, it also mirror..." with ğŸ‘
01:38:11	Potuz:	Replying to "I had thought that t..."

But that was the other way around
01:38:17	Potuz:	Replying to "I had thought that t..."

We chose the blob retention period because of that
01:38:22	Francesco:	Replying to "I think we should CF..."

I would support this, and I am very much open to more conservative values. Just we have to be mindful that it doesnâ€™t make sense to do the EIP if we donâ€™t decrease the WSP meaningfully (like at least to 12 days or 10 days or something)
01:38:44	Barnabas:	2048 epochs sounds pretty good to me (9d)
01:39:00	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should CF..."

I looked into the implementation and it seems simple enough to justify implementation to at least have some testing already done
01:39:09	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "I think we should CF..." with ğŸ‘
01:39:19	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "We chose the blob re..." with ğŸ‘
01:39:19	Francesco:	Replying to "I had thought that t..."

Yeah the WSP existed from the beginning, before blobs. Unfortunately I wasnâ€™t around back then and from the documents I read I canâ€™t find a clear motivation for 15 days other than it being a somewhat meaningful social coordination period
01:39:23	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should CF..."

Doubt weâ€™ll get much bikeshedding against a week for WSP unless some real P0 appears
01:39:27	Barnabas:	Time to get to work!
01:39:30	terence:	sounds good to me
01:39:32	kingy_sigp:	That's fine
01:39:37	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Time to get to wor..." met ğŸš€
01:39:42	Phil Ngo:	Letâ€™s get to work!
01:39:47	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Letâ€™s get to work!" met ğŸš€
01:39:48	Francesco:	Great! Thanks everyone
01:40:01	Potuz:	Reacted to "Time to get to work!" with ğŸš€
01:40:06	stokes:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-8081-heka-bogota-network-upgrade-meta-thread/26876?u=ralexstokes
01:40:27	Potuz:	Is there ACDE next week?
01:40:34	Barnabas:	Replying to "Is there ACDE next w..."

yes
01:40:38	nixo:	Replying to "Is there ACDE next w..."

yes
01:40:38	Potuz:	Reacted to "yes" with ğŸ™
01:41:25	Barnabas:	Jan 5 is the first ACD
01:41:46	nixo:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first A..."

oh thatâ€™s ACDT?
01:42:00	nixo:	from leobago at MigaLibs in the R&D discord:

> I noticed the name voted for the hard fork after Glamsterdam was Heka - Bogota. All of the star names we have selected are in the official list of star names given by the International Astronomical Union [but Heka isn't a real star name]
> If there are no strong objections to this, I would set up a second vote for H, with only names from the catalog.

other options:
https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/h-star-name-for-consensus-layer-upgrade-after-glamsterdam/24298/15

full conversation in the #uncategorized channel

emoji react 
ğŸŒŸ to choose a proper star name
ğŸ¤· to just move forward with Heka even tho it's not a real star name
01:42:05	nixo:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with ğŸ¤·
01:42:09	Barnabas:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first A..."

You telling me ACDT is not a real ACD ? ğŸ˜„
01:42:19	nixo:	Reacted to "You telling me ACDT ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:42:26	nixo:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first A..."

i would never
01:42:41	Barnabas:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:42:44	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with ğŸ¤·
01:42:46	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "from leobago at Mi..." with â­
01:42:47	Milos:	Reacted to "from leobago at Mi..." with â­
01:42:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:43:03	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "from leobago at Mi..." met â­
01:43:06	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:43:08	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:43:08	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:43:14	nixo:	emoji reacts are winning to choose a real star name
01:43:15	felipe:	Reacted to "You telling me ACD..." with ğŸ˜¢
01:43:22	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:43:23	felipe:	Reacted to "from leobago at Mi..." with â­
01:43:37	nflaig:	Reacted to "from leobago at Miga..." with â­
01:43:37	Caleb:	Reacted to "from leobago at Mi..." with â­
01:43:38	Katya:	Reacted to "emoji reacts are win..." with â•
01:43:43	nixo:	i just ask that the decision is made by next ACD? thurs
01:43:45	Dustin:	Reacted to "from leobago at Mi..." with â­
01:43:47	Barnabas:	I think we can really quickly change a new name, shouldnâ€™t get stuck on this. If its not a real star, its kinda dumb lol
01:43:57	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I think we can rea..." met â­
01:44:00	felipe:	Reacted to "I think we can rea..." with ğŸ’¯
01:44:00	Milos:	Reacted to "I think we can rea..." with â­
01:44:02	Trent:	Reacted to "I think we can reall..." with ğŸ‘
01:44:03	Potuz:	lol
01:44:06	nixo:	Reacted to "I think we can reall..." with â­
01:44:06	Justin Florentine (Besu):	to soon to headline, to late to rename
01:44:09	Dustin:	Reacted to "I think we can rea..." with â­
01:44:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first Aâ€¦"
We were thinking about having that ACDT as an ACDE replacement, given ACDE Jan 1 is cancelled
01:44:13	nixo:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:13	Barnabas:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:14	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:15	terence:	did we have a credible commitment to star name
01:44:16	Poulav:	Reacted to "to soon to headlin..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:18	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:22	nixo:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:22	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:23	NC:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:24	Barnabas:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:25	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:25	Trent:	Not now terrenceeee
01:44:25	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "I think we can reall..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:25	Potuz:	I still call it the H fork
01:44:28	nflaig:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:28	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:28	Katya:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:29	Milos:	Reacted to "to soon to headlin..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:30	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:31	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:32	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:32	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "did we have a cred..." met ğŸ˜‚
01:44:32	Milos:	Reacted to "did we have a cred..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:33	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:37	Barnabas:	we should trust the process
01:44:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first Aâ€¦"
In case that would be acceptable from the ACDT side
01:44:38	NC:	Replying to "to soon to headline,..."

We are in a mysterious timeline
01:44:38	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:39	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:44	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "I still call it the ..." with ğŸ‘
01:44:45	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I still call it th..."

H star!!
01:44:45	kingy_sigp:	do we need star headliner process
01:44:46	Poulav:	Reacted to "did we have a cred..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:48	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:48	Justin Florentine (Besu):	yes, but the process is still forming, like a protostar
01:44:52	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "to soon to headlin..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:54	felipe:	Let's name a star Heka and propose it officially?
01:44:55	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "did we have a credib..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:44:55	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:45:00	nixo:	Reacted to "Let's name a star He..." with ğŸ«¨
01:45:01	Potuz:	Reacted to "Let's name a star He..." with ğŸ«¨
01:45:02	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Let's name a star He..." with ğŸ«¨
01:45:03	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Let's name a star He..."

brilliant
01:45:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first Aâ€¦"
Given the significant remaining EL scoping work ahead
01:45:05	nixo:	Reacted to "Let's name a star He..." with ğŸ’™
01:45:06	nflaig:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:45:14	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "Let's name a star He..." with ğŸ«¨
01:45:14	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Let's name a star He..." with ğŸ«¨
01:45:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "i would never" with ğŸ˜‚
01:45:15	Barnabas:	+1 Hunor
01:45:28	Potuz:	Reacted to "to soon to headline,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:45:36	Caleb:	Reacted to "Let's name a star ..." with ğŸ’™
01:45:47	nixo:	portmanteau by next ACDE
01:45:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "+1 Hunor"

Hugota ğŸ«‚
01:45:50	Josh Davis:	Will be dependent on the star, no?
01:46:00	Barnabas:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first A..."

I think we can do that.
01:46:00	kasey:	Still sad it didnâ€™t line up so we could have hamsterdam
01:46:06	Chris Berry:	Reacted to "Hugota ğŸ«‚" with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:06	Satyajit:	Reacted to "Will be dependent ..." with ğŸ‘
01:46:08	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Still sad it didn..." met ğŸ˜‚
01:46:09	nixo:	Reacted to "+1 Hunor" with ğŸ˜µâ€ğŸ’«
01:46:09	Barnabas:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first A..."

Do we need a credible commitment for the swap?
01:46:10	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:12	Katya:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:15	Chris Berry:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:18	nixo:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:19	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:19	Milos:	Reacted to "Still sad it didn..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:20	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..."

this guy The Wires
01:46:21	Vukasin:	Reacted to "from leobago at Mi..." with â­
01:46:22	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Still sad it didn..." met ğŸ”
01:46:23	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Hugota ğŸ«‚" with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Curious what we will do in 10 years when we will run out of letters
01:46:28	felipe:	Reacted to "Still sad it didn..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:28	Potuz:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:31	felipe:	Reacted to "Still sad it didn..." with ğŸ’¯
01:46:34	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:34	dionysuz.eth:	thank you alex
01:46:35	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Hugota ğŸ«‚" with ğŸ˜‚
01:46:35	Francesco:	Reacted to "Still sad it didnâ€™t ..." with ğŸ”
01:46:35	kasey:	Reacted to "this guy The Wires" with ğŸ’¯
01:46:39	felipe:	Reacted to "this guy The Wires" with ğŸ’¯
01:46:44	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Jan 5 is the first A..."

If you put the discussion in the agenda for Jan 5 we can just do it
