00:09:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	gm gm
00:09:48	Zane Starr:	gm gm
00:09:56	Tim Beiko:	Does anyone hear me?
00:09:59	stokes:	no
00:10:31	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1533
00:13:11	Tim Beiko:	Weâ€™ll take it ğŸ˜„
00:15:00	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://hive.ethpandaops.io/#/?group=fusaka-devnet-0
00:15:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://hive.ethpand..." with â¤ï¸
00:15:27	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://hive.ethpand..." with â¤ï¸
00:15:38	Marius:	Have we ever had a devnet without any supernodes? Is that something that we should test?
00:15:47	Barnabas:	Replying to "Have we ever had a d..."

soon
00:15:53	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "Have we ever had a d..."

absolutely
00:16:21	Mario Vega:	@geth the failing tests in hive is due to EIP-7823
00:16:49	Justin Traglia:	Weâ€™ve also made a new consensus-specs v1.6.0-alpha.0 release for fusaka-devnet-0: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/releases/tag/v1.6.0-alpha.0
00:16:58	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ve also made a ne..." with ğŸ‰
00:17:00	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ve also made a ne..." with ğŸ‰
00:17:05	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ve also made a ne..." with ğŸ‰
00:17:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Maybe the EEST/Consensus specs teams can tell us what the coverage status is and whatâ€™s coming up?
00:17:36	Marius:	We haven't merged 7823 into that branch yet, will do during the call
00:17:45	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We haven't merged 78..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:53	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We haven't merged 78..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:53	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Nethermind should be ready by tomorrow
00:18:00	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Nethermind should be..." with ğŸš€
00:18:06	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Nethermind should be..." with ğŸš€
00:18:21	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Nethermind should be..." with ğŸš€
00:19:57	lightclient:	we should put in EIP-7212
00:20:09	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "we should put in E..." with â•
00:20:25	Roman:	Reacted to "we should put in EIP..." with â•
00:20:43	Tim Beiko:	7212 was +1â€™d by all 3 teams across devnet 1 + 2
00:21:08	Dankrad Feist:	tx gas target achieves both execution and prover parallelization
would be really good to have it
00:21:33	Francesco:	But whatâ€™s the problem with having 10 large ones instead of 1 huge one?
00:21:38	Marc:	Reacted to "But whatâ€™s the problâ€¦" with â•
00:21:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	you can always split a 4337 bundle into several txs, no harm in that
00:21:45	Roman:	Reacted to "you can always split..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:45	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "you can always split..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:46	Francesco:	Reacted to "you can always split..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:53	Marc:	Reacted to "you can always splitâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:22:03	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "you can always split..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:13	lightclient:	well itâ€™s more expensive to split it out
00:22:17	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Based on Ben data in last 30 days we hadonly 500txs bigger than 5Mgas and only single ones around 30
00:22:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "you can always split..."

and in principle 4337 is only supposed to be a temporary situation anyway, if we ever get to native AA that would be resolved
00:22:24	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "you can always split..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:24	Marius:	I also like this because of the fairness aspect of it
00:22:28	Dankrad Feist:	can the bundles apply the limit to individual transactions?

because that would still achieve the same goal
00:22:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "well itâ€™s more expen..."

right, so start with a reasonable cap
00:23:17	Jason Vranek:	Proposals like Ultra TXs from Gwyneth use batched transactions to help with L1<>L2 composability. They rely on very very large txs for atomicity  https://ethresear.ch/t/ultra-tx-programmable-blocks-one-transaction-is-all-you-need-for-a-unified-and-extendable-ethereum/21673
00:23:23	Sophia Gold:	If we don't cap it now, we potentially break more thiings if we cap it in the future when the gas limit is higher
00:23:32	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "If we don't cap it n..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:40	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Reacted to "If we don't cap it..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:47	Maintainer.eth:	Reacted to "If we don't cap it n..." with ğŸ’¯
00:23:51	Tim Beiko:	Is there a CR risk to have a txn == to max block size be the norm?
00:23:52	Francesco:	If weâ€™re talking about 30M gas txs, the 21k overhead is irrelevant anyway
00:24:01	Toni Wahrstaetter:	We should even go to 5m or 10m. The additional costs are negligible
00:24:01	Francesco:	Reacted to "If we don't cap it n..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	overhead is more than 21k to be fair, have to run the entire bundle processing logic twice
00:24:21	Toni Wahrstaetter:	of course, might be problematic with backwards compatibility. 30m is safer
00:24:23	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "Proposals like Ultra..."

IIUC, ultra TXs aren't that large
00:24:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	â€œbundlesâ€ are not an enshrined concept
00:24:40	Roman:	whatâ€™s a bundle today?)
00:24:41	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "overhead is more tha..."

can be done in parallel?
00:24:44	Roman:	Reacted to "â€œbundlesâ€ are not an..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:46	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "â€œbundlesâ€ are not an..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:50	Guru:	Reacted to "â€œbundlesâ€ are not an..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:10	Giulio:	Replying to "overhead is more tha..."

Still not significant
00:25:52	Marius:	I think its important to ship it now, before we increase the gas limit
00:26:00	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ’¯
00:26:03	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ’¯
00:26:03	Marc:	Reacted to "I think its importanâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¾
00:26:03	Roman:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:04	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:05	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ’¯
00:26:05	lightclient:	i think we can include it, i just donâ€™t want to paper over issues with resource pricing by capping the tx limit
00:26:10	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:11	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ’¯
00:26:12	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "i think we can inclu..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:19	Marius:	Replying to "I think its importan..." 

 Otherwise users will demand it to match the max gas limit
00:26:28	Francesco:	Reacted to "I think its importan..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:39	Ben Adams:	Replying to "i think we can inclu..."

Don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good
00:26:41	Csaba Kiraly:	I would also limit transaction size in bytes, so that the required settings in the network stack stay clean.
 Implementations have limits, a size limit could also be derived from gas, yet it is cleaner to have an explicit size limit as well.
00:26:45	thomasthiery:	Replying to "Is there a CR risk t..."

I donâ€™t think so, it still needs to pay more fees than all other txns combined to be prioritized. And if you keep filling up blocks with single large txns it becomes very expensive (base fees will increase by 12.5% every full block)
00:26:49	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "I think its import..."

you mean wat with another gas increase until this is implemented and released?
00:27:08	Marius:	Replying to "I think its importan..." 

 Yes
00:27:18	Barnabas:	30M gas limit per tx will be more than enough for non malicious transactions. 

If someone can bring up a valid non malicious use case, we should consider raising it further.
00:27:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think its importan..."

didnâ€™t want to say itâ€™s not urgent, more wanted to say we need it anyway
00:27:33	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "30M gas limit per tx..."

Large AA bundle is what ligthclient was alluding to
00:27:55	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "30M gas limit per tx..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	to be clear with 30M, we should communicate that it can go lower in the future
00:27:59	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "I think its import..." with ğŸ’¯
00:28:00	Marius:	Reacted to 30M gas limit per tx... with "ğŸ‘"
00:28:06	Francesco:	Replying to "30M gas limit per tx..."

Amortizing things from ~0 to even closer to ~0 isnâ€™t really a use case though
00:28:17	Marc:	Replying to "to be clear with 30Mâ€¦"
it seems easier to go lower and raise than the other way around
00:28:22	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "it seems easier to g..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:26	Francesco:	Reacted to "it seems easier to g..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:28	Justin Florentine (Besu):	these numbers seem like guesses
00:28:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "to be clear with 30M..."

I donâ€™t think thatâ€™s right? why is that right?
00:28:44	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "these numbers seem l..."

They are â€” 30m was the block gas limit
00:28:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "to be clear with 30M..."

we are already going down from whatever we are at right before Fusaka (say 60M) to 30M
00:28:56	Marius:	I think 30m is the easiest and most  uncontroversial
00:29:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "to be clear with 30M..."

so why not go down again later?
00:29:04	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "these numbers seem l..."

When the EIP was drafted
00:29:09	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "to be clear with 30M..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:09	Marc:	Replying to "to be clear with 30Mâ€¦"
because raising it canâ€™t break anything, people wonâ€™t get used to sending bigger transactions
00:29:13	Luis Pinto | Besu:	The only DOS concern that make sense are if tx is above the block gas limit
00:29:14	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "it seems easier to g..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I think 30m is the e..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:25	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "I think 30m is the e..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:26	Marc:	Replying to "to be clear with 30Mâ€¦"
if we find that itâ€™s safe to allow larger txs and we need to we can always raise it
00:29:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think 30m is the e..."

seems like 30M has broad support, letâ€™s just agree and ship it
00:29:29	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	not all 7702 users will use bundlers. they can submit their own transactions/batches
00:29:32	felix (eest):	Reacted to "I think 30m is the..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:57	Luis Pinto | Besu:	For parallelisation lets discuss when that is implemented
00:30:07	lightclient:	last 30 days not a useful metric due to bundling in the future
00:30:14	lightclient:	Reacted to "For parallelisation ..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:20	lightclient:	the limit seems fine though, we can do 30m
00:30:27	Barnabas:	Reacted to "the limit seems fine..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:29	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

and have one user whining because they implemented they solution that uses 100mgas transactions?
00:30:35	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

self destruct all over again
00:30:46	Barnabas:	Lets circle back and raise it further when we have legit AA batches?
00:30:49	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

btw we have parallelization now
00:30:50	Sophia Gold:	It's more important for zk proving than traditional parallelization because they can checkpoint the trace and start proving it without waiting to execute a entire block, which is CPU-bound
00:30:50	Barnabas:	Sounds like a pretty easy number to bump
00:30:51	Francesco:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

Parallelisation is implemented in besu already I thought?
00:30:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	letâ€™s ship 30M now, and then by glamsterdam we can have precise metrics on how much of an efficiency penalty for bundled use cases a reduction would be
00:30:59	lightclient:	Reacted to "Lets circle back and..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:01	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

It is but not full parallelisation
00:31:04	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Parallelisation is i..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:05	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

Like BAL
00:31:06	Francesco:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

still
00:31:20	yoav:	In EIP-7701 (native AA) there's no notion of bundles.
00:31:20	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

It is around 60% right now
00:31:27	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "It is around 60% rig..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:31	yoav:	Each AA transaction is a separate trandaction
00:31:33	Ameziane Hamlat:	Here is an interesting use case for capping transaction gas limit , if we would to have high gas limits, more than ~105 mgas : without capping the transaction gas limit, we can create a transaction that is bigger than 10 MiB size, so there would need a way for dapps to evaluate the size of transactions in the same way as they estimate gas with eth_estimateGas before sending them.
00:31:47	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Here is an interesti..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	Cap is still there this is just formalizing it
00:32:20	Karim T.:	Replying to "For parallelisation ..."

Yeah intermediate values in BAL will help to have 100% of parallelization
00:32:20	Roman:	Reacted to "Cap is still there t..." with ğŸ’¯
00:32:28	Roman:	Replying to "Cap is still there t..."

exactly
00:32:33	Guillaume:	SSZ-encoded block? :P
00:32:48	Karim T.:	Only last values of the block will not help to increase this number we have in besu
00:33:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	capping it lower could be problematic as we start raising the gas limit
00:34:08	Justin Florentine (Besu):	then we need to raise the upstream bandwidth reqs
00:34:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "capping it lower cou..."

it should really only ever be binding for maliciously crafted blocks
00:34:17	Francesco:	Replying to "capping it lower cou..."

We could always increase the cap
00:34:18	Mario Vega:	CL doesnâ€™t know because it doesnâ€™t encode to RLP
00:35:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	receipts are not a part of a block
00:35:53	Roman:	Receipts are not in the block
00:35:56	Roman:	Reacted to "receipts are not a p..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	can buidling not just err on the safe side? stop adding txs way under that limit, have a way to â€œestimateâ€ rlp size without ever fully calculating it?
00:36:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "can buidling not jus..."

like even if you are over cautious by a factor of 2, nbd
00:36:57	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i don't see any issue building this in besu, idk about mev
00:37:04	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "i don't see any issu..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:08	Marc:	If it turns out to be complicated for building could drop the EIP later
00:37:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	why is it pointless to make the MEV people dance a bit for us? :-)
00:37:14	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "can buidling not jus..."

Iâ€™m sure you can make the heuristics.
00:37:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "why is it pointless ..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "why is it pointless ..."

this is not a compute starved userbase
00:38:27	Justin Florentine (Besu):	its an accumulator, nbd
00:38:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	you donâ€™t need to be precise, just ensure you stay under the cap
00:39:09	Marius:	Where is it verified in the engine api?
00:39:29	lightclient:	if you guys have implemented and it seems good, then letâ€™s do it
00:40:12	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	We tested it out on perfnet where we were reaching cap commonly and stopped missing slots
00:40:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I do think getting the â€œwhere is it enforcedâ€ right is super important though, so we should be certain that the rlp encoded block is the best place
00:40:13	Marius:	Replying to "if you guys have imp..." 

 We have the tx size in our transaction implementation already, so building should not be a big problem for us
00:40:19	lightclient:	Reacted to "I do think getting t..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:24	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "Where is it verified..."

Best on both sides
00:40:41	PaweÅ‚ Bylica:	We haven't seen the implementation yet :)
00:41:02	Roman:	Can we do a cap on total size of txs instead?
00:41:06	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "Where is it verified..."

Like passing it on to the other side if you know its wrong is stupid, but receiver side must check.
00:41:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I do think getting t..."

would be nice if that check would e.g. not have to be replicated in many places, so that it would be easy to modify / remove in the future
00:41:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think that breaks down significantly if BAL hits
00:41:46	Roman:	Tx total + BAL
00:42:17	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "We haven't seen th..."

Cap block build size in bytes by benaadams Â· Pull Request #8486 Â· NethermindEth/nethermind
00:42:34	lightclient:	Reacted to "Cap block build size..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	CL should decide this, it's their limit no?
00:42:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	given that there is still uncertainty about how to do it, is the goal to resolve right now? or look into it more and make a more informed decision?

is main difference devnet-1 readiness?
00:42:49	Roman:	Reacted to "given that there is ..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we can already decide now that we will have some variant of this EIP that equals a rough ~10MB cap in fusaka, and ready for devnet-2
00:43:29	Francesco:	Reacted to "I do think getting t..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:04	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "we can already decid..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:05	Marius:	I would cap it to 9mb and only count the txs
00:44:12	Marius:	Reacted to we can already decid... with "ğŸ‘"
00:44:19	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I would cap it to 9m..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:22	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "I would cap it to 9m..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:23	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "we can already decid..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:35	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	cant receipts exceed 1 mb?
00:44:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	how many other EIPs are there?
00:44:45	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Cap block build size..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:48	CPerezz:	Reacted to "I would cap it to 9m..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:06	lightclient:	Replying to "cant receipts exceed..."

receipts arenâ€™t in the block RLP for purposes of the EIP though right?
00:45:16	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "cant receipts exceed..."

ah, right
00:45:17	lightclient:	Replying to "cant receipts exceed..."

since CL doesnâ€™t propagate receipts
00:45:20	Francesco:	Reacted to "since CL doesnâ€™t pro..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:23	Vectorized (Solady):	i propose EIP-7939 (CLZ) a pretty easy opcode.
00:45:29	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "i propose EIP-7939 (..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "i propose EIP-7939 (..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:46	lightclient:	I really think we should add 7212 and 7907
00:45:57	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:58	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with â•
00:46:00	lightclient:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

we want to signal to devs we are listing and making things better for them
00:46:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	what exactly are we deciding? add to fusaka but not devnet-1?
00:46:25	Peter:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:29	Nicolas Consigny:	We need to solve a few things with 7212 first
00:46:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

strong opinion on which particular devnet?
00:46:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We need to solve a f..."

does this have a champion?
00:46:38	Nicolas Consigny:	The current specification of RIP-7212 compares the x coordinate with the signature r value directly (as integers, presumably), which may return false when the standard result should be true
00:46:42	stokes:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:42	stokes:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with â•
00:46:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We need to solve a f..."

seems like zero progress in a year
00:47:08	stokes:	Replying to "The current specific..."

Can we just write an EIP-7212 that fixes this?
00:47:08	Marius:	No strong feelings for any of these from me
00:47:16	lightclient:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

depends on how much there is for devnet 1
00:47:33	lightclient:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

i think we are targeting devnet 1 for berlin
00:47:59	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "The current specific..."

Hmmm yes kind of but then we would have some conflict with existing 7212 on rollups ğŸ¤·
00:48:04	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "The current specific..."

So I would say yes
00:48:08	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "The current specific..."

if they fork out
00:49:10	Barnabas:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

yes devnet 1 is targeting to launch on monday 9th of June
00:50:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	@Tim Beiko which 4 did you mention just now? I see 5 open EIPs on the CFI list, which one was the one out?
00:50:10	CPerezz:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

REG: r1 support. We have some L2s supporting it which will like to be â€œBasedâ€/â€œNativeâ€.

If L1 doesnâ€™t have the precompile they wonâ€™t be able to.
Also, r1 is mostly interesting for keystone interactions no?

(Not that â€˜m in favor or against though).
00:50:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko which 4 d..."

(already ignoring EIP-7762 in favor of EIP-7918 in that count)
00:50:52	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko which 4 d..."

EIP-5920: PAY opcode
RIP-7212: Precompile for secp256r1 Curve Support
EIP-7907: Meter Contract Code Size And Increase Limit
EIP-7918: Blob base fee bounded by execution cost
00:51:02	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with â•
00:51:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	if there are concerns, can we push this to devnet-2 and make sure we have confidence in 2 weeks?
00:51:19	Marc:	Reacted to "if there are concernâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¾
00:51:39	Åukasz Rozmej:	any bottleneck on jumpdest analysis?
00:51:59	lightclient:	jumpiest analysis has been shown to be linear cost per code size
00:52:46	Åukasz Rozmej:	do clients persist jumpdest analysis or do it always on the fly?
00:52:59	lightclient:	https://github.com/charles-cooper/eip-3860-benchmarks/blob/master/benchmark_results/summary_report.md
00:52:59	Marius:	Replying to "do clients persist j..." 

 We compute it on the fly
00:53:11	lightclient:	^ jumpdest analysis limit
00:53:11	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "The current specific..."

RIP-7212â€™s verifier should reduce the affine x-coordinate of the reconstructed point modulo n before it is compared with r, and it must explicitly reject the point-at-infinity.Without these two rules different EVM chains can accept or reject exactly the same P-256 Schnorr signature, because an attacker can pick a nonce whose x-coordinate lies in [n, p) or that reconstructs to âˆ
00:53:14	Sophia Gold:	If you're concerned about the effect of code size, we should add the new SWAPs and DUPs in glamsterdam
00:53:16	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "do clients persist j..."

we to, I consider saving it with the code directly
00:53:18	Barnabas:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

how much impl are these eips require?
00:53:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko which 4 d..."

that seems to only leave

EIP-7917: Deterministic proposer lookahead

Is the idea to reject this for Fusaka today, or make a decision for devnet-2 later?
00:53:50	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "The current specific..."

Can probably fix
00:53:53	stokes:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko which 4 d..."

7917 is more of a CL call
00:54:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "@Tim Beiko which 4 d..."

aah, I realized that just as you wrote that. never mind then
00:54:24	stokes:	Reacted to "RIP-7212â€™s verifier ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:39	CPerezz:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

r1 is just a copy-paste of k1 impls right? So should not be crazy. Just changing a few constants and not much more work.
00:54:46	lightclient:	Reacted to "r1 is just a copy-pa..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:55	stokes:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

My understanding is that impl is quite low
00:55:00	Roman:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:01	Roman:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with â•
00:55:05	stokes:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

Many langs have a library that is more or less 1:1 to EIP ready
00:55:06	Peter:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with â•
00:55:12	stokes:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

And much smaller surface area than say 2537
00:55:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	context: that RIP is already live on some L2s
00:55:54	CPerezz:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

I still think the most important part is considering the Based/Native rollup idea.

As if we donâ€™t support this, theyâ€™ll need to remove it if they want to be based/native.
00:56:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	7212 seems to really urgently need a champion then if it still wants to have a shot for Fusaka
00:56:14	CPerezz:	Replying to "I really think we sh..."

Unsure how clear this is. But can be a concern if this whole concept moves forward
00:56:21	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "7212 seems to really..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "7212 seems to really..."

needing changes and being flagged as significant testing overhead
00:56:38	Barnabas:	Reacted to "7212 seems to really..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:38	CPerezz:	Replying to "7212 seems to really..."

Antonio is an expert on championing EC precompile additions ^^
00:56:46	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "Antonio is an expert..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:54	Justin Florentine (Besu):	7212 is not an eng challenge, it's a research one
00:57:04	Barnabas:	Replying to "7212 seems to really..."

Its a huge UX + , I think we should include it in fusaka.
00:57:09	stokes:	Replying to "7212 is not an eng c..."

What is there to research?
00:57:11	CPerezz:	Replying to "7212 seems to really..."

Agree
00:57:18	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	Replying to "7212 seems to reallyâ€¦"
What does it take to be a champion ? I donâ€™t like the current format of the RIP, but I think itâ€™s better than nothing
00:57:24	CPerezz:	Reacted to "What is there to res..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:36	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "7212 is not an eng c..."

safety, just need a signoff that it's good to go.
00:57:53	Barnabas:	what changes need to be made to make it viable by devnet 2?
00:58:17	stokes:	@Nicolas Consigny im interested in helping, will dm
00:58:31	Tim Beiko:	Strong +1 on not having different code at the same address
00:58:40	CPerezz:	Replying to "7212 is not an eng c..."

R1 is in safe curves already no? https://safecurves.cr.yp.to/
00:59:01	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "@Nicolas Consigny im..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:07	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "@Nicolas Consigny im..." with ğŸ”¥
00:59:16	Marius:	@Mario Vega updated our fusaka branch for 7823
00:59:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	sounds more like internet issues
00:59:32	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "@Mario Vega updated ..." with ğŸš€
01:00:06	Barnabas:	we shouldnâ€™t roll out a feature that has a known bug lmao
01:00:21	Barnabas:	just because we donâ€™t want compilers to target diff address based on chainid
01:00:22	stokes:	Replying to "we shouldnâ€™t roll ou..."

We would deploy the right thing to l1
01:00:28	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We would deploy the ..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:34	Vectorized (Solady):	agree with Hadrien. the point of making the precompile is so that existing code that use 7212â€™s 0x100 address will simply get speed up. if itâ€™s on a different address, itâ€™s pretty much pointless imo.
01:01:38	Barnabas:	how much time would the modified version of this EIP take to get security audited tho? Would it delay shipping peerdas?
01:02:19	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "how much time would ..."

Less than 3 month imo
01:02:48	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7918
01:02:57	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "how much time would ..."

If you meant 7212 ğŸ˜…
01:03:07	Roman:	Agree with @lightclient , idt itâ€™s a prio / smth we wanna rush
01:03:09	CPerezz:	Replying to "how much time would ..."

Itâ€™s a NIST curve.  So thereâ€™s formal specs and lots of references.

Also itâ€™s a clone of k1 mostly but changing constants.
So should be quite easy to both implement and audit.
01:03:23	lightclient:	Reacted to "Agree with @lightcli..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:24	Barnabas:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

shove it to Glamsterdam?
01:03:32	lightclient:	sgtm
01:03:32	Roman:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

Whatâ€™s after?
01:03:46	Barnabas:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

something Bogota
01:03:49	lightclient:	how can zero be underpriced?
01:03:55	Roman:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

smth bogota sg
01:03:56	CPerezz:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:57	Barnabas:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:59	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:00	Roman:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:05	terence:	I thought this has been brought up to a RollUp call last November and L2s in presence all seemed ok with it, we didnt include it because of testing delay
01:04:09	Guru:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:09	Anders Elowsson:	On EIP-7918. There has been this recent analysis: https://notes.ethereum.org/@anderselowsson/EIP-7918E
It essentially just expands the rationale, but would could then warrant another constant selection.
01:04:13	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "how can zero be unde..."

infinitely
01:04:16	stokes:	I call it hogota
01:04:16	Ben Adams:	Replying to "how can zero be unde..."

every number is over; so its under
01:04:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:24	stokes:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

H-star + bogota
01:04:43	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

BogotHa
01:04:58	Barnabas:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

Hydra + Bogota?
01:05:12	Francesco:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

Hog
01:05:42	Tim Beiko:	So right now we have

Devnet-0:
EIP-7594: PeerDAS - Peer Data Availability Sampling
EIP-7823: Set upper bounds for MODEXP
EIP-7883: ModExp Gas Cost Increase
EIP-7892: Blob Parameter Only Hardforks

Devnet-1:
EIP-7825: Transaction Gas Limit Cap
EIP-7918: Blob base fee bounded by execution cost

CFI â€” maybe for devnet-2:
RIP-7212: Precompile for secp256r1 Curve Support
EIP-7907: Meter Contract Code Size And Increase Limit
EIP-7934: RLP Execution BlockSize Limit
EIP-5920: PAY opcode


DFI
EIP-7762: Increase MIN_BASE_FEE_PER_BLOB_GAS
01:05:44	Tim Beiko:	Still TBD
EIP-7917: Deterministic proposer lookahead
01:05:46	CPerezz:	Replying to "Agree with @lightcli..."

I think this is an example of something we can definitely speed up a bit in ACD.

It has no blockers nor anything and itâ€™s quite similar to k1.

Canâ€™t we ship for Fusaka or Glamsterdam at worst?

Why donâ€™t we see this landing in Fusaka? Whatâ€™s the exact blocker?
01:05:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	but to be clear, all of that EIP-7918 complexity is just on the rationale side, so no issues for implementation
01:05:54	lightclient:	Reacted to "but to be clear, all..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:00	Trent:	EL naming sequence with 2/yr

'25 H1/H2 : Prague/Osaka
'26 H1/H2 : Amsterdam/Bogota
'27 H1/H2 : Istanbul/Bangkok
'28 H1/H2 : Buenos Aires/'26 city
'29 H1/H2 : '27 city/'28 city
'30 H1/H2 : '29 city/'30 event

https://x.com/trent_vanepps/status/1923069488880091406
01:06:05	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "but to be clear, all..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:33	Marc:	Replying to "but to be clear, allâ€¦"
from implementing this and the other min blob base fee proposal, this one was actually much simper
01:06:57	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	why is there always fear from making L2 pay a bit for blobs? blobs are the most underpriced compute that Ethereum is providing while being the most valuable resource for L2s
01:06:59	Trent:	Replying to "but to be clear, all..."

Interesting, wouldnâ€™t have guessed that!
01:06:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	why not devnet-1?
01:07:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why not devnet-1?"

if itâ€™s ready
01:07:12	CPerezz:	Reacted to "why is there always ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:12	Trent:	Reacted to "why is there always ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:23	Marius:	Reacted to why is there always ... with "ğŸ‘"
01:07:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why not devnet-1?"

wait who wants to move it to a different fork? I think thatâ€™s not an option
01:07:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why not devnet-1?"

we need this for fusaka
01:07:36	terence:	Reacted to "we need this for fus..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:37	Trent:	Replying to "why is there always ..."

Are there other people with this view besides light client?
01:07:37	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "we need this for fus..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:38	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "we need this for fus..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:39	lightclient:	Replying to "why is there always ..."

i mean the fear is we push L2s away from ethereum
01:07:40	Mario Vega:	Which EIP?
01:07:46	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Which EIP?"

7918
01:07:48	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s a NIST curve.  ..." with ğŸ’¯
01:07:49	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "why is there always ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:49	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "we need this for fus..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:52	Marc:	Reacted to "we need this for fusâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:07:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "7918" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:07:59	stokes:	Do we know how much 7918 would raise fees?
01:08:02	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "we need this for fus..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:03	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "how can zero be unde..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:06	stokes:	I feel like that would help ground the convo
01:08:08	Marc:	Replying to "why not devnet-1?"
could do devnet-2 to have a bit longer to finalise spec details
01:08:31	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "how can zero be unde..."

Ask the Move language based apps ğŸ¥²
01:08:35	terence:	Replying to "why is there always ..."

This is good for L2, they actually want this EIP
01:08:40	Ansgar Dietrichs:	if we need one more round of â€œshould we even ship this in Fusaka at allâ€, we should do that now. we wonâ€™t have any new info in 2 weeks
01:08:47	Trent:	Replying to "how can zero be unde..."

Too niche Nico lol
01:08:47	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "This is good for L2,..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:49	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "This is good for L2,..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:52	FLCL:	add this constant to schedule ğŸ˜?
01:08:57	Trent:	Reacted to "This is good for L2,..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:05	Trent:	Replying to "why is there always ..."

I think this is worth surfacing terence!
01:09:38	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "why is there always ..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:47	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "why is there always ..."

Yes @terence can you expand on it on the call?
01:10:10	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	if we dont raise the base fee, L2s then need to pay extra priority fee to the builders to compete with other L2s on inclusion. Builders dont really want to include a lot of blobs
01:11:59	lightclient:	wonâ€™t the curve become more smooth when demand levels out in line with supply?
01:12:04	Francesco:	One way to think about this is thereâ€™s two separate goals:
Solve the ramp-up problem by keeping the blob fee always at least in the ballpark of the execution fee
Charge blobs something thatâ€™s more related to the actual compute cost

We can solve 1. regardless, and then depending on the parameter setting we might go more or less towards 2. (e.g. we can decide to still keep blob-related computation more or less underpriced)
01:12:36	lightclient:	Reacted to "One way to think abo..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:42	Trent:	Reacted to "if we dont raise the..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:43	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

Right so that is the great thing by shipping EIP-7918 and starting at a lower range
01:12:49	stokes:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

Doesnâ€™t â€œkeep blob fee in ballpark of execution feeâ€ imply raising the blob fee substantially?
01:13:12	Francesco:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

Ballpark could mean 1/10, 1/100, not necessarily even the same order of magnitude
01:13:12	Ben Adams:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

Only when no blobs are being posted
01:13:27	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

It would be at 10% as per recent discussion
01:13:31	stokes:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

Ok then I think im on board
01:13:52	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "One way to think abo..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:14	Francesco:	Replying to "One way to think abo..."

Then thereâ€™s a separate strategic discussion around actually charging â€œthe fair priceâ€ for computation, but we donâ€™t need to do that for the EIP to be useful
01:14:26	stokes:	summary: makes fee more predictable and we can agree later on the exact fee level

So this sounds good
01:14:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	how to think about this EIP in general:

The â€œeffective control floorâ€ for the blob basefee varies when the normal gas basefee goes up and down.

If gas on mainnet is cheap, already a relatively cheap blob basefee allows for price discovery. But if the mainnet gas is high, the blob basefee floor also needs to be a bit higher, otherwise the normal gas cost of a blob tx just completely dominates the total cost
01:14:46	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Then thereâ€™s a separ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:54	stokes:	Reacted to "Then thereâ€™s a separ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:54	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Then thereâ€™s a separ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:56	Francesco:	Reacted to "summary: makes fee m..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:58	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "summary: makes fee m..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:05	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "how to think about t..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:15	Trent:	Reacted to "how to think about t..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:27	Justin Florentine (Besu):	to me this falls in the category of servicing app devs
01:15:36	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "to me this falls in ..." with â•
01:16:06	Vectorized (Solady):	imo, its not adding new functionality.
01:16:07	Roman:	It would break current men boost flow
01:16:56	Marc:	Nethermind would support in devnet 1 or 2
01:17:06	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Nethermind would sup..." with ğŸ‘
01:17:26	Vectorized (Solady):	i propose replacing PAY with CLZ.
01:17:26	lightclient:	why not remove? if weâ€™re going to do 6 months forks lets just revisit later
01:17:56	Marius:	Replying to "i propose replacing ..." 

 Very similar features tbh
01:17:58	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "i propose replacing ..."

Why not both?
01:18:08	lightclient:	Reacted to "Very similar feature..." with ğŸ§‘â€ğŸ“
01:18:11	Vectorized (Solady):	Replying to "i propose replacing â€¦"
if we are ambitious, both is good
01:18:12	lightclient:	Reacted to "Why not both?" with ğŸš€
01:18:16	lightclient:	Reacted to "if we are ambitious,..." with ğŸš€
01:18:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i'd like to hear stronger case for not breaking mev with PAY, i don't understand it enough to sympathize yet
01:18:28	Barnabas:	so only 2 eip for devnet 1 ?
01:18:37	lightclient:	Reacted to "so only 2 eip for de..." with ğŸš€
01:18:37	Barnabas:	are we gonna let the devs slack off?
01:18:41	lightclient:	Reacted to "are we gonna let the..." with ğŸ˜¦
01:18:51	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "are we gonna let the..." with ğŸ¥±
01:18:52	lightclient:	Replying to "are we gonna let the..."

we have so many eips to review though ;)
01:18:52	Maintainer.eth:	Reacted to "are we gonna let the..." with ğŸ¤£
01:18:52	stokes:	Replying to "are we gonna let the..."

Lets not bite off more than we can chew
01:19:06	Tim Beiko:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/methodology-for-ethereum-testnet-networks/23164
01:20:11	Sophia Gold:	I thought Sepolia was for app devs?
01:20:18	Barnabas:	we had holesky as the last devnet to fork ğŸ˜‚
01:20:21	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "One way to think abo..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:23	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we had holesky as th..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:20:31	lightclient:	Replying to "I thought Sepolia wa..."

we realized that some apps need to use staking features
01:20:42	nixo:	alon is here now
01:20:44	Alon Muroch | SSVLabs:	Hi everyone!
01:20:47	Marius:	Should be community driven imo
01:20:53	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "we realized that s..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:09	Maintainer.eth:	Reacted to "Hi everyone!" with ğŸ‘‹
01:21:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Should be community ..."

Didnâ€™t work out so well when it was tried with holesky originally
01:21:12	Barnabas:	I think the idea is to have devnet - x forks then sepolia/hoodi/mainnet
01:21:39	Marius:	Replying to "Should be community ..." 

 Welll...
01:21:55	Marius:	Replying to "Should be community ..." 

 That was maybe because of the team behind it
01:22:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	eternal mainnet shadow fork?
01:22:58	Barnabas:	I donâ€™t think we should have a â€œforever running testnetâ€
01:23:20	lightclient:	i think we just rushed the deployment of pectra
01:23:37	Barnabas:	Dev teams should have automated tools to deploy their stuff on testnets, if we have a very long running very stable testnet, then their tooling will get old, and become untested.
01:23:46	stokes:	Reacted to "Dev teams should hav..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:48	lightclient:	Replying to "i think we just rush..."

we still need to test on the testnets, we just need to be more confident that we wonâ€™t break them
01:23:54	lightclient:	Reacted to "Dev teams should hav..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:56	Marius:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." 

 I don't care, as long as its community driven and we don't need to do anything for it. Means apps using it should also run the nodes etc
01:24:01	Roman:	We didnâ€™t intentionally break holesky, promise
01:24:03	Marc:	we could fork hoodi last and still have a bit of a gap to observe before mainnet
01:24:42	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	Would state expiry make such a testnet viable ?
01:24:51	lightclient:	Replying to "Would state expiry m..."

it would help a lot
01:24:54	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Would state expiry m..."

I think that would solve most issues
01:24:57	lightclient:	Replying to "Would state expiry m..."

but we still have some issues with eth supply
01:25:10	Barnabas:	The community can launch a long running testnet if they want. But I donâ€™t think we should do that.
01:25:19	Marius:	Reacted to The community can la... with "ğŸ‘"
01:25:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "The community can la..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:11	lightclient:	holesky is designed to last 6 years, is that not enough?
01:26:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "holesky is designed ..."

was designed **
01:26:43	lightclient:	Replying to "holesky is designed ..."

yeah that is a different issue
01:26:47	stokes:	Replying to "holesky is designed ..."

Yeah arenâ€™t we dropping in a few months
01:27:14	lightclient:	weâ€™ve only had 1 bug like this in modern history on testnets
01:30:25	Francesco:	After mainnet would be very weird ğŸ˜„Weâ€™d rather anything but mainnet breaks first
01:31:00	Barnabas:	Iâ€™m really against running anything over 6years.
01:31:07	Barnabas:	even 3yrs is too much imho.
01:31:08	lightclient:	Reacted to "Iâ€™m really against r..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:12	lightclient:	Replying to "After mainnet would ..."

this ^^^^
01:31:43	Csaba Kiraly:	Agree. The right question is: if one fails, which one your would choose? Obviously best if none, but if something is slipping through, I would prefer catching it on the one where apps are only tested.
01:31:50	lightclient:	i think weâ€™re over indexing on the bug on holesky
01:31:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "i think weâ€™re over i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:32:01	Marius:	Reacted to i think weâ€™re over i... with "ğŸ‘ğŸ½"
01:32:30	lightclient:	i think pectra was a mess and we were rushing to get the testnets launched when we should have relaxed a little more
01:32:54	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "i think weâ€™re over i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:33:08	Barnabas:	Replying to "i think pectra was a..."

I still think it was good idea to launch hoodi tbh
01:33:14	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I still think it was..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:19	lightclient:	Replying to "i think pectra was a..."

as opposed to?
01:33:29	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "I still think it was..." with ğŸ‘
01:34:30	Vectorized (Solady):	Base Sepolia is now our preferred testnet ;)
01:34:51	Justin Florentine (Besu):	app devs unite and re-use panda tech to shadow fork mainnet?
01:36:05	Marius:	Hahaha rope in devs with a great testnet experience, dissapoint them on mainnet
01:36:26	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Hahaha rope in devs ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:37:06	Barnabas:	You should push those applications to deploy on testnets
01:37:21	Barnabas:	They should practice deploying on kurtosis
01:37:37	lightclient:	can we talk about the RPC proposals?
01:37:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Yeah we can work on pushing more people to deploy on hoodi
01:38:12	Justin Florentine (Besu):	RPC call next monday if not
01:38:17	Alon Muroch | SSVLabs:	Thank you everyone!
01:38:23	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/issues/658
01:38:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Thank you everyone!" with â¤ï¸
01:38:28	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Thank you everyone!" with â¤ï¸
01:38:35	nixo:	Reacted to "Thank you everyone!" with â¤ï¸
01:38:55	Barnabas:	I think its time to just yeet JSON-RPC altogether. 
Lets just do REST.
01:38:59	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Thank you everyone!" with â¤ï¸
01:39:08	Marius:	Rpc error codes, what a great idea :D
01:39:19	Maintainer.eth:	Reacted to "Rpc error codes, wha..." with ğŸ˜…
01:39:20	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think its time to ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:39:25	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Rpc error codes, wha..." with ğŸ˜…
01:39:27	Karlos Zurutuza:	Reacted to "I think its time to ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:39:30	Zane Starr:	ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here from Open-RPC helping with error standardization in conjunction

Execution-APIs issue:
https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/issues/658


Standardized Code Proposal:
https://github.com/user-attachments/files/20363196/ENG-ERC_.Standardized.JSON-RPC.Error.Codes.and.Messages-210525-082426.pdf
PR for execution Apis:
https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/653
PR for rpctestgen:
https://github.com/lightclient/rpctestgen/pull/42

OpenRPC
https://open-rpc.org
OpenRPC Error groups Extension
https://github.com/open-rpc/tools/tree/main/packages/extensions/src/x-error-groups
OpenRPC - New Repo
https://github.com/open-rpc/tools
OpenRPC- Generator
https://github.com/open-rpc/generator
01:39:33	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think its time to ..."

maybe something for glamsterdam?
01:39:36	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Why do we have a standard around error codes AND messages?
01:39:49	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Why do we have a sta..." with â•
01:39:49	Maintainer.eth:	Reacted to "ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here fro..." with ğŸ”¥
01:39:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here fro..." with ğŸ”¥
01:39:56	Marius:	Reacted to ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here fro... with "ğŸ”¥"
01:39:57	Tim Beiko:	Whatâ€™s the best place to discuss this async, given weâ€™re out of time?
01:40:05	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Reacted to "ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here fro..." with ğŸ”¥
01:40:06	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Reacted to "ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here fro..." with ğŸ”¥
01:40:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	rpc channel in discord
01:40:23	Barnabas:	#json-rpc-api
01:40:25	felix (eest):	Reacted to "ğŸ‘‹ Hey Zane here..." with ğŸ”¥
01:40:27	Maintainer.eth:	Thank you all, GM!
01:40:31	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "Why do we have a sta..."

It feels like clients can already work with error codes but maybe Iâ€™m missing something
01:41:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	sorry, not ythoclock its on the calendar, and eth/pm repo
01:41:53	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7939
01:41:58	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9792
