00:07:00	potuz:	GM
00:08:47	stokes:	Excited for Ansgar ğŸ‰
00:08:54	Tim Beiko:	add ğŸ”¥
00:08:58	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Excited for Ansgar ?... with "ğŸ”¥"
00:09:00	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	add ğŸ”¥
00:09:03	Radek | zkevm:	add ğŸ”¥
00:09:08	Antonio Sanso:	add ğŸ”¥
00:09:52	lightclient:	We have a PR with fix
00:10:03	lightclient:	itâ€™s due to another PR for eth_config :(
00:10:03	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "We have a PR with fi..." with ğŸš€
00:10:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://dora.fusaka-devnet-5.ethpandaops.io/
00:11:05	felipe:	Reacted to "We have a PR with ..." with ğŸš€
00:11:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@samcm/fusaka-devnet-5-analysis
00:12:43	lightclient:	i feel like we skipped over waiting for devnet 3 to getting back to finality
00:13:35	lightclient:	so it should take more than a day to restore finality?
00:15:07	stokes:	sgtm
00:15:13	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "sgtm" with ğŸ‘
00:15:41	lightclient:	lighthouse was also getting bad response for get blobs around the transition for a few clients i think?
00:15:56	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "lighthouse was also ..."

Anyone from LH on the call to give context?
00:16:11	lightclient:	Replying to "lighthouse was also â€¦"
i know geth was incorrectly returning v0 and v1 sidecars
00:16:31	lightclient:	Replying to "lighthouse was also â€¦"
iâ€™m not sure how other ELs deal with conversion at the fork boundary
00:17:26	Roman:	reth does not convert
00:17:30	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	we just donâ€™t return
00:17:30	Alexey:	we agreed to not convert
00:17:48	Mario Vega:	Replying to "lighthouse was also ..."

We have hive tests for get blobs, but not at the fork boundary, it might be a good idea to try to add some
00:18:16	potuz:	yeah, +1
00:18:22	felipe:	Reacted to "We have hive tests..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:32	Alexey:	both
00:18:37	Roman:	we filter them out on the block building level
00:18:39	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "reth does not conver..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:18:44	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "we filter them out o..." with â•
00:18:51	Alexey:	we clear txpool from old ones on fork
00:18:51	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	we filter them out on the block building level
Besu as well
00:19:25	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "We have hive tests f..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:22	pk910:	devnet-5 fulu activation is in 3h :D  probably too short
00:20:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	given the very limited one-time relevance, seems like dropping is the pragmatic path
00:20:50	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "given the very limit..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:20:55	spencer-tb:	Legacy means blobs at Prague?
00:21:02	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Are we ready to set a new tentative timeline  (assuming devnet 5 goes well) for Fusaka rollout today ->

22 Sep - RC client releases
?? - Sepolia
?? - Hoodi
?? - Mainnet
00:21:10	stokes:	Replying to "Legacy means blobs a..."

yep
00:21:18	stokes:	Replying to "Legacy means blobs a..."

New proof format in fusaka
00:21:20	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/pull/1715
00:21:27	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "New proof format in ..." with ğŸ™
00:21:51	stokes:	Replying to "Legacy means blobs a..."

The blobs are still fine, but either need to convert to this new format at the fork boundary, or just do nothing
00:22:45	stokes:	Replying to "Legacy means blobs a..."

Most clients just doing nothing 

(And this only applies to transactions in mempool)
00:22:52	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	for getBlobsV2, spec says: if the request isÂ [A_versioned_hash_for_blob_with_blob_proof], the responseÂ MUSTÂ beÂ nullÂ as well.
00:23:55	stokes:	I think we need minimal time b/t releases and holesky
00:24:21	Roman:	Reacted to "I think we need mini..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:50	Fredrik:	I agree with stokes on Holesky
00:24:51	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Reacted to "I think we need mini..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:57	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Reacted to "I agree with stokes ..." with â•
00:25:01	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I agree with stokes ..." with â•
00:25:07	Jen:	Reacted to "I think we need mini..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:10	stokes:	Ill assume silence is yes ;)
00:25:17	James He:	How long until client releases?
00:25:34	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "How long until clien..."

Last call 22 Sep was mentioned
00:25:42	lightclient:	Reacted to "I think we need miniâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:26:03	Matt B:	Reacted to "I think we need mi..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:06	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	ğŸ‘
00:27:42	stokes:	Iâ€™d say 1 week b/t Holesky and Sepolia
00:27:48	stokes:	Unless thereâ€™s a good reason for more time
00:28:32	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d say 1 week b/t H..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:36	Alexey:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d say 1 week b/t H..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:37	James He:	We want a few days soak before release but after release 1 week sounds reasonable for holesky . I think 1 week might be short if we find any reason to rerelease .
00:28:54	stokes:	Replying to "We want a few days s..."

Fair, I think we can re-evaluate then
00:28:54	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think 1 week is fine as long as we're not doing non-finalization testing
00:28:56	stokes:	Replying to "We want a few days s..."

If that happens
00:29:06	stokes:	Replying to "i think 1 week is fi..."

Hopefully we are not on the testnets
00:29:07	Phil Ngo:	1 week is enough lead time for Lodestar to push a release
00:29:43	Justin Florentine (Besu):	same release pls
00:29:57	stokes:	I can have proposed fork epochs by next ACDC
00:29:58	Alexey:	all testnets dates at a time
00:30:06	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "all testnets dates a..." with â•
00:30:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	does the commiunity?
00:31:02	saulius:	Replying to "i think 1 week is fi..."

My guess is that we may have non intentional non-finality on Holesky.
00:31:12	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/pull/1715
00:31:15	stokes:	Replying to "i think 1 week is fi..."

Yeah, and Iâ€™d propose to not try to hard to recover
00:31:19	stokes:	Replying to "i think 1 week is fi..."

Learn what we can and move on
00:31:23	Alexey:	hoodi?
00:31:37	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	In Besu, we usually have a burn-in period before releasing. The burn in itself takes two days usually. I would like to have at least 4 days
00:31:40	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "hoodi?"

Week of 20th?
00:32:02	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "hoodi?"

Assuming holeski is 1 week
00:32:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "In Besu, we usually ..." with ğŸ«¡
00:33:19	saulius:	Replying to "i think 1 week is fi..."

well, client teams should try to make their clients work if non-finality happens on Holesky, but yea, likely we don't want to drop everything and focus on recovering it because of time/resources constrains.
00:33:30	lightclient:	2 weeks
00:33:43	Fredrik:	Reacted to "2 weeks" with â•
00:33:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	more is better, loosely held
00:34:03	Alexey:	Reacted to "more is better, loos..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:25	stokes:	My gut does say 2 weeks
00:34:36	Mario H:	Reacted to "more is better, lo..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:38	Mario H:	Reacted to "2 weeks" with â•
00:34:40	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "2 weeks" with â•
00:35:11	Mario H:	Ephemery will fork monthly after Sep 25
00:35:17	lightclient:	i think arbitrum said they preferred more time between releases and first testnet
00:35:36	Alexey:	Reacted to "i think arbitrum sai..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:21	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "i think arbitrum sai..."

For Fusaka we are goo to go with shorter timelines, we started margining pre-release geth
00:36:44	stokes:	Good plan for now
00:37:39	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	So to summarize timelines?
22 Sep - RC client releases
Week of 29th - Holeski (1 week after client releases)
Week of 13th - Sepolia (2 weeks from Holeski)
Week of 27th - Hoodi (2 weeks from Sepolia)
?? - Mainnet (min 30 days from RC, donâ€™t want to propose mainnet timeline yet)
00:38:00	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

Yes, if devnet-5 has no issues
00:38:07	terence:	there's an epbs breakout this friday: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1714
00:38:07	Lumi | Offchain Labs:	Reacted to "Yes, if devnet-5 has..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:19	stokes:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

Didnâ€™t we say we were ok w/ 1 week b/t Holesky and Sepolia?
00:38:25	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

No, 2 weeks
00:38:44	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

Didnâ€™t you explicitly say that too ğŸ˜…? 

My gut does say 2 weeks
00:38:52	stokes:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

Hm I thought that was 2 weeks b/t client releases and sepolia

But Iâ€™ll review after the call
00:39:01	stokes:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

That was b/t sepolia and hoodi
00:39:28	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "So to summarize time..."

Letâ€™s align now ğŸ˜„
00:39:50	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "there's an epbs brea..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	2 weeks
00:40:32	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "2 weeks" with â•
00:40:36	Tim Beiko:	EOL Testnet â†’ 1 week
Live testnet â†’ 2 weeks
00:40:52	Fredrik:	Reacted to "EOL Testnet â†’ 1 week..." with â•
00:42:24	Justin Florentine (Besu):	understood, works for us
00:42:38	Fredrik:	1 week between EOL -> Live testate would imo feel very short to find issues and then get a new release out if something does go wrong (and if we fail to get fixes out in time etc then the whole chain of upgrades will go out of sync), so I support the 2 weeks
00:43:04	stokes:	Replying to "1 week between EOL -..."

Fredrik agreeing w/ what Lumi wrote
00:43:17	lightclient:	Replying to "1 week between EOL -â€¦"
so 2 weeks after holesky?
00:43:20	lightclient:	Replying to "1 week between EOL -â€¦"
or no?
00:43:31	stokes:	Replying to "1 week between EOL -..."

Lumiâ€™s msg
00:43:33	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "1 week between EOL -..."

Yes
00:43:34	stokes:	Replying to "1 week between EOL -..."

Is our agreement
00:43:35	lightclient:	Replying to "1 week between EOL -â€¦"
ğŸ‘
00:44:00	lightclient:	the merge 2.0
00:44:04	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:44:11	felipe:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:44:17	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Fredrik agreeing w/ ..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:17	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "the merge 2.0"

Merge Phase 2
00:45:00	panaw:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:45:05	panaw:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ‘
00:45:11	Guru:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:45:13	Trent:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ‘
00:45:17	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:45:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I love the WELD framing, very cinematic
00:45:25	Felix:	the generated tests will remain in execution-spec-tests?
00:45:25	Trent:	We have been missing merges in our lives. I can get behind this =)
00:45:31	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "the generated tests ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:34	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "the generated tests ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:38	felipe:	Reacted to "the generated test..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:46	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "the generated tests ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:53	felix (eest):	Reacted to "the generated test..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:46:11	Mario Vega:	Replying to "the generated tests ..."

Yes, we are making fixture releases still in EEST
00:46:32	Carson | STEEL:	Reacted to "I love the WELD fram..." with ğŸ©µ
00:46:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "the merge 2.0" with ğŸ˜†
00:46:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "the generated tests ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:47:27	nixo:	Reacted to "I love the WELD fram..." with ğŸ©µ
00:48:07	danceratopz:	Weld Blog Post:
https://steel.ethereum.foundation/blog/blog_posts/2025-09-11_weld-announcement/

Slides:
https://notes.ethereum.org/@danceratopz/weld-announcement#/
00:48:12	Jihoon:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with â¤ï¸
00:48:12	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Weld Blog Post:
http... with "ğŸ”¥"
00:48:13	Carson | STEEL:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with ğŸ©µ
00:48:14	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with ğŸ”¥
00:48:17	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with â¤ï¸
00:48:20	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with ğŸ”¥
00:48:22	Guru:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with ğŸ”¥
00:48:24	felipe:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
ht..." with ğŸ”¥
00:48:26	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
ht..." with ğŸ”¥
00:48:30	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with ğŸ©µ
00:48:32	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with â¤ï¸
00:48:49	terence:	Replying to "Weld Blog Post:
http..."

403 for the slides : )
00:49:05	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "403 for the slides :..." with ğŸª¦
00:49:10	felix (eest):	Reacted to "403 for the slides..." with ğŸª¦
00:49:38	Tim Beiko:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/the-case-for-eip-7932-eip-7980-inclusion-in-glamsterdam/25293
00:49:43	danceratopz:	Replying to "Weld Blog Post:
http..."

Thanks! Fixed;
https://notes.ethereum.org/@danceratopz/weld-announcement
00:52:52	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it's accomadating decoupling sig types
00:54:00	Trent:	Reacted to "Weld Blog Post:
http..." with â¤ï¸
00:54:05	Gary Schulte:	it would be unfortunate if p256verify became a special snowflake, if we were to adopt a signature framework
00:54:41	Tim Beiko:	Will time box this convo after Felix so we can move to the next EIPs ğŸ˜„
00:56:30	Tim Beiko:	Next up, @Toni WahrstÃ¤tter with EIP-7976Â andÂ EIP-7981.
00:56:48	nixo:	Replying to "https://ethereum-mag..."

fyi this author confirmed that heâ€™s listening but canâ€™t attend - so any CTAs for him can be called out
00:57:59	Antonio Sanso:	https://ethresear.ch/t/falcon-as-an-ethereum-transaction-signature-the-good-the-bad-and-the-gnarly/21512/5
00:58:06	Radek | zkevm:	Reacted to "https://ethresear.ch..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:17	Antonio Sanso:	https://ethresear.ch/t/so-you-wanna-post-quantum-ethereum-transaction-signature/21291
00:58:27	Danno Ferrin:	No PQ signatures have NIST supported key recovery
00:58:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "No PQ signatures hav..." with â•
00:58:49	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7981 and https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7976
00:58:50	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "No PQ signatures hav..." with ğŸ‘€
00:58:51	potuz:	you can always have an ECRecover from any signature scheme
00:58:52	Antonio Sanso:	https://ethresear.ch/t/the-road-to-post-quantum-ethereum-transaction-is-paved-with-account-abstraction-aa/21783
00:59:04	Alexey:	if new pq sig is compromised, it might be cool to have a quick way to intro new one
00:59:14	Antonio Sanso:	Replying to "you can always have ..."

Not from any ğŸ™‚
00:59:29	potuz:	Replying to "you can always have ..."

yes, you just add the public key to the signature
00:59:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

so thats a whole thing that needs redesign - the ability to ecrecover from a sig does a lot of heavy lifting for us
00:59:45	Antonio Sanso:	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

Falcon has a key recovery mode
00:59:49	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "you can always have ..."

Put the pubkey in the signature then itâ€™s recoverable. I think thatâ€™s probably the best path forward on non-recoverable algorithms
01:00:24	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

NIST supported key recovery? They explicitly passed on it for falcon
01:01:42	Antonio Sanso:	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

However, as Renaud Dubois pointed out, Section 3.12 of the Falcon paper introduces a key recovery model.
01:02:11	Antonio Sanso:	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

Not NIST supported but in the falcon paper
01:02:16	potuz:	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

reposting in this thread cause it seems to repeat the above: any signature scheme has a recovery method: just append the pubkey to the signature
01:02:48	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "No PQ signatures hav..."

yes, this is my point, we just need to design for that in the sig abstraction mechanic. we should do that asap.
01:03:13	Tim Beiko:	EIP-2780
01:03:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i like 2780 seems like pretty good return for low risk
01:04:03	Marc:	Reacted to "i like 2780 seems liâ€¦" with â•
01:04:22	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "i like 2780 seems li..." with â•
01:04:34	lightclient:	thatâ€™s a little different. i think the state growth concern is more about the newly available gas due to the reduction that can now be generally used to increase state size
01:04:43	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "i like 2780 seems li..." with â•
01:04:46	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "thatâ€™s a little d..." met â•
01:06:33	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to i like 2780 seems li... with "â•"
01:06:53	Mario Vega:	The intrinsic gas cost calculation seems weird to me in this EIP, do we have to check the state now to determine the intrinsic gas cost now?
Itâ€™s a very minor concern and Iâ€™m sure it can be addressed
01:06:58	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "i like 2780 seems li..." with â•
01:07:31	Alexey:	2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_COSTyou meant cold?
01:07:55	Ben Adams:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

no :)
01:08:04	Alexey:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

why?
01:08:14	Ben Adams:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

because are all in header
01:08:42	Ben Adams:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

isn't discovered as part of tx
01:08:50	Alexey:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

does not mean we don't need to load it
01:09:06	Ben Adams:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

perfectly parallizable
01:09:16	Alexey:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

as all access with BALs
01:09:34	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Ansgar needs a safeword
01:09:39	Ben Adams:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

BALs aren't parallelizable to builder
01:09:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:09:45	Alexey:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

disk access is still disk access, parallelisation is not an arguement
01:09:50	CPerezz:	Reacted to "thatâ€™s a little diff..." with â•
01:09:51	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:01	wolovim:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a saf..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:05	Ben Adams:	Replying to "2 * WARM_ACCOUNT_ACC..."

2 for free then :)
01:10:10	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:17	nixo:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:18	Marc:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safewâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:19	Alexey:	Reacted to "2 for free then :)" with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:22	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:24	Carson | STEEL:	Reacted to "Ansgar needs a safew..." with ğŸ˜‚
