00:05:27	Potuz:	gm
00:05:34	0xTylerHolmes:	Gmgm
00:05:36	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:08:05	Chris Berry:	Yes
00:08:25	Potuz:	People here unmute themselves faster than I can blink
00:08:30	Josh Davis:	No greeting from @Justin Florentine (Besu) ? Its a new year
00:08:37	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "People here unmute t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:37	Potuz:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:40	felix (eest):	Reacted to "No greeting from @..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:41	Vukasin:	Reacted to "No greeting from @..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:43	felipe:	Reacted to "No greeting from @..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:43	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:46	Ben Adams:	Replying to "People here unmute t..."

ePBS fixes this
00:08:48	Pooja Ranjan:	Replying to "No greeting from @Ju..."

I was about to write that ğŸ™‚
00:08:48	Katya:	Happy New Year!
00:08:50	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:50	Will Corcoran:	lol
00:08:50	Akash | ECH:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:08:52	Kalo | Obol:	Happy New Year!
00:08:56	Mario Vega:	LFG
00:08:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:09:03	Anna Thieser:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:09:09	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "No greeting from @Ju..." with ğŸ¤£
00:09:24	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1844
00:09:41	Trent:	Can anyone share the stream link for Preston in the discord?
00:09:52	Justin Florentine (Besu):	https://youtube.com/watch?v=ZXxk3cV7Tjw
00:09:59	Vukasin:	Reacted to "Happy New Year!" with ğŸ„
00:10:07	Mikhail Kalinin:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4747
00:10:11	Trent:	Replying to "https://youtube.com/..."

Yes, clicked that and itâ€™s unavailable
00:10:40	Josh Davis:	Replying to "https://youtube.com/..."

I shared it
00:11:27	Trent:	Replying to "https://youtube.com/..."

thanks!
00:12:06	Etan (Nimbus):	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with â¤ï¸
00:12:43	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with â¤ï¸
00:12:54	Will Corcoran:	We also have a fancy website coming together ;)
00:12:54	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/pull/1864
00:12:59	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We also have a fancy..." with ğŸ”¥
00:13:00	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "We also have a fancy..." with ğŸ”¥
00:13:02	nixo:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ™
00:13:13	Satyajit:	Reacted to "We also have a fan..." with ğŸ”¥
00:13:23	Bharath:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with â¤ï¸
00:13:52	nixo:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

tl;dr: champions were somewhat unclear this glam round what was required to get an EIP moving forward or unclear on deadlines for progress, so trying to create more clarity around that
00:13:58	Ben Adams:	Replying to "https://youtube.com/..."

Still says unavailable?
00:14:06	Barnabas:	we managed to hit multiple 21 blob blocks.
00:14:16	Josh Davis:	Replying to "https://youtube.com/..."

https://www.youtube.com/live/9JQ7OorDgCE
00:14:24	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "https://www.youtube...." with ğŸ‘
00:15:34	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Do we have data on real demand vs artificial pumps from panda ops?
00:16:04	Barnabas:	we only pumped a little bit yesterday, 4-5 slots to hit 21 blobs
00:16:10	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "we only pumped a lit..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:21	Justin Traglia:	When next BPOs?
00:16:39	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Now with peerDAS, reorgs become a more important  metric than missed head votes
00:16:39	Leo:	we should not rush to higher BPOs if there is no demand for it in the coming weeks/months
00:16:50	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "we should not rush t..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:07	Satyajit:	Reacted to "we should not rush..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:20	Sanggu:	Reacted to "we should not rush t..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:13	Trent:	Replying to "Do we have data on r..."

Their addresses are tagged in hildobbyâ€™s dune db, easy to filter out if you want https://dune.com/hildobby/blobs
00:18:23	Etan (Nimbus):	Reacted to "we should not rush t..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:47	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "we should not rush t..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:05	Bharath:	Reacted to "we should not rush t..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:09	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1844#issuecomment-3715952155
00:19:36	Dustin:	Reacted to "we should not rush..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:44	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "we should not rush t..."

As I see from here -https://blobscan.com/stats there is no increase in the daily blob counts after Fusaka
00:19:53	Etan (Nimbus):	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/11032/files
00:20:20	Justin Traglia:	What are the pros/cons?
00:20:23	Leo:	Reacted to "As I see from here..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:37	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "What are the pros/co..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:52	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Also want to see a clear pros for the proposed option
00:21:07	Satyajit:	Reacted to "What are the pros/..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:36	Trent:	Replying to "we should not rush t..."

Moderation in everything, including moderation =)

As pointed out in past instances of this discussion - itâ€™s important to prepare for future growth of existing blob users, and future users who need certainty that we will be able to accommodate their needs. Worth keeping in mind
00:23:06	Marius van der Wijden:	SSZ is not streameable anyway, right?
00:23:10	Leo:	Replying to "we should not rush..."

https://www.migalabs.io/blobs
The number of daily blobs seems to be actually decreasing, so clearly not enough demand.
00:24:28	Etan (Nimbus):	#ssz channel in discord
00:26:16	Barnabas:	censor the censoroor
00:26:41	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "https://www.migalabs..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:33	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "we should not rush t..."

Given that we already had 2 BPOs I agree with Leo that without observed increase in demand we should not rush with increase
00:27:52	Matthew Keil:	Replying to "we should not rush t..."

+1
00:30:27	Marius van der Wijden:	Its not super easy to implement this on the el it would require a lot of additional work (screening the blocks for transactions in the txpool)
00:30:50	Potuz:	You already have to do this to produce an IL for focil
00:30:58	stokes:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-8081-hegota-network-upgrade-meta-thread/26876
00:31:01	Potuz:	It would be the same as checking IL satisfaction essentially
00:31:16	Barnabas:	wouldnâ€™t it make more sense to bundle it with IL changes and not overload Glammy?
00:31:39	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

This is completely optional, clients can just return always â€œnoâ€
00:31:55	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Itâ€™s not consensus breaking and not fork choice decision is being made
00:32:02	Marc:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make morâ€¦"
is it more of a makeshift until we have focil or you think it would be useful afterwards?
00:32:04	Jihoon:	IL satisfaction check is deterministic and not heuristics.
00:32:11	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

So for an EL to implement this is simply adding a boolean that always says â€œno"
00:32:22	Trent:	Replying to "we should not rush t..."

Not saying it needs to be rushed - just boosting context from past discussions as to why centering on current demand may miss important considerations
00:32:24	Potuz:	Replying to "It would be the same..."

Itâ€™s irrelevant for what I am requesting though
00:32:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	itâ€™s fine to have a bit of a discussion on themes today already, but I think we should mostly wait until we have all the headliner proposals
00:32:41	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Itâ€™s a makeshift
00:32:43	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Sorry for the dumb Q, but what is the good time for the non-headliner proposals?
00:32:50	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

using such a locally-available-info mechanism for focil is fine but not for blacklisting builders as mempools aren't standardized.
00:33:31	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

I disagree, the CL can track that a particular builder is actually censoring 100% of blocks, and others arent
00:33:42	Åukasz Rozmej:	theme: technical debt
00:33:42	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

And then decide then, with actual statistical information
00:33:48	Marius van der Wijden:	I think the theme for glamsterdam was scale, I don't think that needs to be the main focus for hegota
00:33:51	nixo:	Replying to "Sorry for the dumb Q..."

itâ€™s in the ethmag link above - itâ€™ll follow the headliner proposals
00:34:22	Jihoon:	Replying to "It would be the same..."

I also don't think it is right to say that ELs already have good heuristics for IL production. They will have to devise and implement their strategies.
00:34:34	Barnabas:	Replying to "theme: technical deb..."

marketing department does not approve this message.
00:34:38	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "Sorry for the dumb Q..."

Got you. So it is late Feb early March
00:34:40	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "Sorry for the dumb Q..."

Thanks!
00:34:54	Potuz:	Replying to "It would be the same..."

They can just say â€œthis block is not censoringâ€ and thatâ€™s fine
00:35:02	Potuz:	Replying to "It would be the same..."

Thatâ€™s a very simple heuristic
00:35:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	damn I am very envious of ACDC regarding call agenda sizeâ€¦
00:35:14	EF Berlin office:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜…
00:35:14	stokes:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:16	Sanggu:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:18	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "damn I am very env..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:18	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:19	Marius van der Wijden:	CL hardening?
00:35:23	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:28	NC:	Reacted to "damn I am very envioâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:32	nixo:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:35	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:40	Barnabas:	Can we start proposing headliners, as we have 1 whole hour left?
00:35:52	Jihoon:	Replying to "It would be the same..."

What happens when clients produce different output?
00:36:03	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "damn I am very envio..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:36:22	stokes:	Replying to "Can we start proposi..."

Fine w/ an early discussion
00:36:30	stokes:	Replying to "Can we start proposi..."

Not sure champions are ready today to formally get into it
00:36:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

the problem is that the EL cannot really tell. Everyone can come up with their own heursistics but noone is right
00:37:08	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

So, the resp you get as a CL from different ELs is different over ELs.
00:37:13	felipe:	Reacted to "damn I am very env..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:45	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "damn I am very env..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:59	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "theme: technical deb..." with â¤ï¸
00:40:25	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Thatâ€™s a good feature not a bug
00:40:59	Potuz:	100% of what Marius is saying
00:41:05	Potuz:	Canâ€™t stress this enough
00:41:08	Matthew Keil:	Agreed
00:41:20	Matthew Keil:	And Technical Debt is a big part of this hardeningâ€¦
00:41:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

If one EL has a higher tx size limit than the others than validators using this EL would blacklist all builders
00:41:57	Barnabas:	Reacted to "cccccdderlnfbbfhklvk..." with ğŸ‰
00:42:09	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

It's a feature for focil, but not for blacklisting. We would have more accidential blacklisting events (without knowing that one happened) than real ones
00:42:38	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Again, statistical inference works.  If that node operator wants to blacklist every builder that doesnâ€™t include large txs thatâ€™s a feature
00:42:47	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

They can do so anyway
00:42:58	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Not being included also depends on being able to pay the basefee. ELs would not only need to track the time until inclusion but also for how long the tx has actually been able to pay the basefee
00:43:15	Jihoon:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

I also think it is better to not try to overload more feature to Glamsterdam especially if it's a makeshift.
00:43:24	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I also think it is b..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:31	Barnabas:	security of the chain should always be on a higher priority than new features.
00:43:46	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "security of the chai..." with ğŸ’¯
00:43:57	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

This is kinda ridiculous, thereâ€™s no overloading, they can just say â€œthis block is not censoringâ€ and thatâ€™s it. Exactly what happened with the already existing boolean. And then Nethermind implemented it when they had time
00:44:07	felix (eest):	Reacted to "security of the ch..." with ğŸ’¯
00:44:08	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Itâ€™s not affecting fork choice, nor attesting, nor proposing
00:44:16	NC:	Reacted to "security of the chaiâ€¦" with ğŸ’¯
00:44:20	Leo:	Reacted to "security of the ch..." with ğŸ’¯
00:44:23	Potuz:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

Itâ€™s not consensus breaking, itâ€™s just an optional boolean in the engine
00:44:24	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "security of the chai..." with ğŸ’¯
00:44:27	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

the mempool is a non-standarized space and we would certainly open this up to attack other builders, trying to get them blacklisted
00:44:53	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "security of the chai..." with ğŸ’¯
00:44:53	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "security of the chai..." with ğŸ’¯
00:44:57	Marius van der Wijden:	How do client teams feel about epbs security?
00:45:15	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "security of the ch..." with ğŸ’¯
00:45:17	Potuz:	Scared as shit
00:45:26	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜…
00:45:29	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜…
00:45:29	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜…
00:45:30	NC:	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜‚
00:45:30	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "security of the chai..." with ğŸ’¯
00:45:31	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜‚
00:45:33	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "security of the chai..." with ğŸ’¯
00:45:33	Satyajit:	Reacted to "security of the ch..." with ğŸ’¯
00:45:34	Leo:	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜‚
00:45:34	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Scared as shit" with ğŸ˜…
00:45:52	Jihoon:	Replying to "wouldnâ€™t it make mor..."

It is an extra work, whether you call it overload or not.
00:46:11	stokes:	2026 is an important year, lots to do ;)
00:47:05	Justin Traglia:	Hereâ€™s a link to what Mikhail is talking about: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/tree/master/tests/generators/compliance_runners/fork_choice
00:48:26	Potuz:	Nice Mikhail! Would be nice to have time to actually implement this. EPF could be useful for this if one is reading
00:49:01	Justin Traglia:	Happy new year, bye everyone
00:49:01	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "Nice Mikhail! Would ..."

i hope that since this is the current hard fork devs are working on they will find a time to implement testing suites devfeloped for that features
