00:03:51	Potuz:	GM
00:03:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	GMMM
00:04:00	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:04:00	Pooja Ranjan:	gm
00:04:01	Antoine James:	gm
00:04:03	Louis:	GN
00:04:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Glamsterfans is amazing
00:04:10	rodiazet:	ga
00:04:11	ignacio:	gm
00:04:16	Fredrik:	ga
00:04:19	Potuz:	Justin had that one saved for the last few weeks
00:04:37	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Justin had that one ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:05:13	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Justin had that one ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:05:31	Mario Vega:	gm
00:05:32	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	gm/gn
00:05:34	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Justin had that one ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:05:41	nixo:	gm
00:05:54	terence:	gm
00:06:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Justin had that one ..."

nope. strictly improv over here.
00:07:05	Potuz:	Reacted to "nope. strictly impro..." with ğŸ˜
00:07:07	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "nope. strictly impro..." with ğŸ˜
00:07:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "nope. strictly impro..." with ğŸ˜
00:09:09	Dustin:	which MEV? devnet-3 will change it
00:09:54	terence:	prysm has a PR to fix it, it will soon be merged
00:09:59	terence:	(for blob schedule)
00:09:59	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "prysm has a PR to fi..." with ğŸ‘
00:10:30	Barnabas:	devnet 3: http://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-devnet-3
00:10:40	Trent:	lmao
00:10:54	Trent:	9 month time travel to the past
00:11:48	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "devnet 3: http://n..."

fusaka-devnet-3 targets to launch on 23rd Jul 2025 
is this still accurate @Barnabas
00:12:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "devnet 3: http://not..."

thats my goal yes
00:12:05	stokes:	Replying to "devnet 3: http://not..."

I think we will discuss next
00:12:10	stokes:	Replying to "devnet 3: http://not..."

But next week should be the target
00:12:21	Potuz:	we could always pressure to delay devconnect if we aren't making it :)
00:12:22	Tim Beiko:	Mainnet ~> Nov 5-12
Last testnet ~> Oct 6-10
First testnet ~> Sep 22 - Oct 3
Client testnet releasesÂ ~> Week of Aug 25
00:12:26	Barnabas:	Replying to "devnet 3: http://not..."

I donâ€™t think we can hit monday anymore due to uncertainty in 7907
00:12:36	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we could always pres..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:12:36	stokes:	Replying to "devnet 3: http://not..."

I hope to resolve that today
00:12:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we could always pres..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:12:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we could always pres..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:12:44	hopinheimer (manas):	Reacted to "we could always pr..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:12:44	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "we could always pres..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:12:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	but there are real tradeoffs here, right? this entire time period between first testnet client releases and mainnet fork is a time where core devs canâ€™t yet fully focus on the next fork. so the more we drag that out, the more delayed the next fork will be
00:12:54	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "we could always pres..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:01	Barnabas:	Replying to "we could always pres..."

or dedicate 1 day in devconnect to make mainnet client releases ğŸ˜‚
00:13:10	stokes:	Fusaka this year is more important than a few months on glammy IMO
00:13:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "but there are real t..."

my point is we need both, no?
00:14:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "but there are real t..."

so I would be reluctant to add extra delays both between client releases and testnet fork, and then again for mainnet. that is just extra time that will delay glamsterdam
00:14:17	Barnabas:	Timeline looks tight, but doable.
00:14:20	Marius van der Wijden:	We need real peerdas testing
00:14:26	Marius van der Wijden:	Haven't seen that yet
00:14:26	stokes:	Reacted to "Timeline looks tight..." with ğŸ”¥
00:14:30	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Haven't seen that ye..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:14:31	pawan:	Replying to "We need real peerdas..."

THIS
00:14:33	stokes:	Replying to "Haven't seen that ye..."

Month of august
00:14:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "We need real peerdas..."

we need happy case working first
00:14:39	Dustin:	Reacted to "Haven't seen that ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:14:44	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "Timeline looks tig..." with ğŸ”¥
00:14:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	is dropping 7907 on the table?
00:14:50	marek:	Reacted to "Timeline looks tight..." with ğŸ”¥
00:14:51	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 on ..."

yes
00:15:01	Dustin:	should test without getBlobsV2
00:15:06	Potuz:	Replying to "We need real peerdas..."

+1
00:15:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "We need real peerdas..." with ğŸ’¯
00:15:13	Manu:	Reacted to "should test without ..." with ğŸ‘
00:15:16	Phil Ngo:	Would like to see NFT devnet
00:15:19	Potuz:	Reacted to "should test without ..." with ğŸ‘
00:15:23	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to We need real peerdas... with "â•"
00:15:26	Phil Ngo:	(Non-finality)
00:15:27	pawan:	Reacted to "Would like to see NF..." with ğŸ‘
00:15:32	Manu:	And tests with perfect peerdas
00:15:33	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "(Non-finality)" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:52	marek:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 on ..."

I think we should drop it if we're undecided on what to do with this EIP, especially if there's a risk of delaying the fork
00:16:09	Dustin:	also for getBlobsV3: I know Raul et al really want to get this into Fusaka as a latently available thing, but that becomes a tradeoff too
00:16:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "is dropping 7907 on ..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:20	nixo:	Reacted to "(Non-finality)" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:32	Barnabas:	7907 and getblobsv3
00:16:58	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 o..."

Yes same
00:17:03	marek:	Reacted to "Yes same" with ğŸ‘
00:17:06	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "(Non-finality)" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:07	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Imo, we should skip getBlobsV3 for fusaka. It does not affect fusaka at all
00:17:16	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

agree
00:17:17	stokes:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 on ..."

Also agree w/ this
00:17:26	stokes:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 on ..."

Think Fusaka this year is our #1 priority ATM
00:17:33	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

but currently we have getblobsv2 with the semantics of v2 and v3
00:17:35	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Yes same" with ğŸ‘
00:17:36	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

it's a nice to have that's getting shoved in last-moment
00:17:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Would like to see NF..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "(Non-finality)" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:52	draganrakita:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 on ..."

Lets at least increase the code size by 50%
00:18:00	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

@Mikhail to be usable it needs testing and there's no CL testing ecosystem for it currently
00:18:02	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

nor on a devnet
00:18:03	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

you propose to revert v2 to its original version with no partial responses support and remove v3?
00:18:04	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Lets at least increa..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:07	Tim Beiko:	Also want to flag if we remove 7907, we can add it back to Glamsterdam
00:18:09	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

yes
00:18:10	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

V2 got reverted to no partial responses afaik. None of the clients implemented partial responses. So thereâ€™s nothing to do
00:18:13	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Also want to flag if..." with â•
00:18:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Also want to flag if..." with â•
00:18:18	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Also want to flag if..." with â•
00:18:28	stokes:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

We may still need to update the spec, but I can handle that today if thatâ€™s the blocker
00:18:30	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "(Non-finality)" with ğŸ˜‚
00:18:30	Mario Vega:	Replying to "is dropping 7907 on ..."

My problem with 7907 is that it feels that thereâ€™s a better solution, not only for us devs but also for users, as an user, I donâ€™t want to pay for a large contract access if I only want to read my balance in some token
00:18:31	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Raulâ€™s point is that v3 should be supported by ELs, nothing to do with CLs in Fusaka
00:18:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	is it too late now to ship giulioâ€™s EIP instead? just bump max code size from 24kb to 32kb, no pricing or other changes at all?
00:18:37	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "Also want to flag if..."

We're not opposed to eip-7907, Besu's implementation is nearly finalised, but we agree that this is the time to freeze the spec and focus on hardening for the testnets. We wouldnâ€™t object to moving 7907 to Glamsterdam and removing it from Fusaka. The fact that we still donâ€™t have consensus on its risks and broader consequences is a strong signal that its inclusion should be reconsidered, especially just a few days before the launch of the final Devnet 3.
00:18:46	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

that's not possible to assert sans full testing
00:19:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "is it too late now t..."

it's not a big enough lift, it's yolo'ing stuff without enough leverage
00:19:26	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

it wonâ€™t be tested by CLs. there will be a separate devnet for that after Fusaka if we accept the v3 proposal
00:19:36	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Implementing v3 has no effect on furthering fusaka progress. It can only slow it down. I think its a waste of resources
00:19:41	draganrakita:	Replying to "is it too late now t..."

Supporting this, it is two lines change in Reth.
00:19:43	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

after Fusaka won't make it unconditionally available
00:19:50	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

it doesn't accomplish Raul's stated goals
00:19:55	Roman:	Reacted to "is it too late now t..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:59	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

if implementing partial responses support by ELs delays Fusaka then we should likely remove partial responses from Fusaka
00:20:06	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

exactly
00:20:09	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

yes
00:20:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Whatâ€™s the implementation difficulty for the smaller increase? And what tests would we need and how long might they take?
00:20:36	draganrakita:	Reacted to "is it too late now t..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:37	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

EL devs please speak out if v3 delays Fusaka on your side
00:20:40	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Also want to flag ifâ€¦" with â•
00:20:43	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Whatâ€™s the implement..."

All consensus tests are parametrized to handle the increase, the problem might be benchmarking
00:20:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "All consensus tests ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:20:53	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Besu has a PR already for v3
00:20:55	Marius van der Wijden:	I think 100% increase without mitigation is out of the question for me, not super sure about 50%
00:20:57	marek:	Reacted to "All consensus tests ..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:06	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I think 100% incre..."

I think it is probably doable
00:21:10	pawan:	I think its not the implementation complexity, its the time its taking away from other important testing (in terms of devnet testing)
00:21:12	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Notably: "implemented" means "has been tested" insofar as whether CLs can rely on it
00:21:13	Charles (vyper):	i think 50% increase actually has a worse effect on the total amount of code that can be loaded in a tx/block than 7907
00:21:47	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "i think 50% increa..."

Yeah thats what worries me
00:21:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7954
00:21:54	Ben Adams:	32kB would be +1/3
00:22:18	Roman:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:19	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

i believe they can test it in Hive, but the ultimate testing of the whole feature is impossible w/o CL
00:22:21	Francesco:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

I am fine with whatever is done with v2/v3, but this seems entirely an EL issue at this point, I think CL teams can just ignore v3 completely? So itâ€™s not clear to me in what way it is a distraction to CL teams
00:22:29	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "i think 50% increa..."

Similar to 7907 we have have not crunched the numbers on it yet
00:22:34	Justin Florentine (Besu):	still doesn't speed up Fusaka release as much as changing nothing
00:22:47	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:48	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with â•
00:22:49	Francesco:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Either way, I think just making a truly final decision is more important than the outcome here
00:22:51	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

"So itâ€™s not clear to me in what way it is a distraction to CL teams" I'm not sure who's making that claim?
00:22:54	stokes:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

I think at least Barnabas wants to have some stub implementation of v3 at a minimum if we go w/ it
00:22:57	marek:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:59	marek:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with â•
00:23:00	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Fine either way as well
00:23:13	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with â•
00:23:13	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "still doesn't spee..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:19	stokes:	We can put a contract size adjustment in Glamsterdam
00:23:20	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

If you are spending resources testing V3, you are taking away resources from testing other important stuff like malicious testing. Thatâ€™s my main point
00:23:24	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

My broader claim is, it's disingenuous to claim it's there and works unless it's been actively tested in a devnet environment
00:23:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "still doesn't speed ..."

right, it is more a symbolic gesture that we are not dropping it because we donâ€™t care about app devs
00:23:29	marek:	Replying to "still doesn't speed ..."

Let's do it right in Glamsterdam
00:23:30	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "We can put a contr..."

We need to
00:23:38	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:45	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Let's do it right in... with "â•"
00:23:46	felipe:	Reacted to "we could always pr..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:23:46	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

And the pitch for V3 is it's so simple it doesn't even really need to be tested in that way, but that's fallacious
00:23:52	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with â•
00:23:56	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "still doesn't speed ..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:09	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

And therefore it can't be assumed to work, from the CL side, anyway, during Fusaka
00:24:15	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

V3 is irrelevant for fusaka. I donâ€™t understand why we need to implement it today. getBlobsV1 was also prototyped and implemented outside of a fork. Its easy to add later when we have time
00:24:18	Charles (vyper):	the limit for eip-7907 has already been reduced to 48kb
00:24:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	To be clear though, timeline to have a proper Glamsterdam proposal is maybe ~3 months, so we actually need to get going on figuring out a principled strategy here
00:24:37	marek:	Reacted to "To be clear though, ..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:35	Barnabas:	Do L2s want bigger contract sizes or want more blobs sooner?
00:25:44	felipe:	Reacted to "My problem with 79..." with ğŸ’¯
00:25:44	stokes:	Replying to "Do L2s want bigger c..."

More blobs sooner
00:25:53	J Sunnyside Labs:	Replying to "Do L2s want bigger c..."

More blobs +1
00:25:53	Marius van der Wijden:	People have lived with the 24k limit for a looong time now, I don't really see an IMMEDIATE need for Fusaka instead of Glamsterdam
00:26:00	Roman:	Replying to "Do L2s want bigger c..."

are you an L2 @stokes ? ğŸ˜…
00:26:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	of course we canâ€™t do code chunking in Glamsterdam.

but by then we can know what exactly we want to do long-term, and can work backwards to short-term changes that donâ€™t introduce tech debt
00:26:04	stokes:	Replying to "Do L2s want bigger c..."

;)
00:26:04	FLCL:	we are also includng secp256r1, which I'm not aware of proper gas benchmarking of
00:26:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	We can also do the hacky approach that we planed on doing for fusaka, but in glamsterdam. And that gives us time to atleast make it less hacky.
00:26:13	Marius van der Wijden:	We could do a 50% increase in Glamsterdam if we have the full numbers
00:26:18	Derek Lee:	Bigger contract sizes
00:26:21	Derek Lee:	We can scale in other ways
00:26:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "We can also do the..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:33	Derek Lee:	We already annoucned plans to scale in other ways
00:26:41	Francesco:	Replying to "We already annoucned..."

What other ways?
00:26:49	Barnabas:	Replying to "We already annoucned..."

L3s
00:26:57	Marius van der Wijden:	Its implemented in all clients
00:27:04	Charles (vyper):	Reacted to "Its implemented in..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:05	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "L3s" with ğŸ¤”
00:27:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Its implemented in a..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:19	Trent:	EVM L2s differentiating is unlikely
00:27:28	draganrakita:	It becomes maintenance problem
00:27:28	Mikhail Kalinin:	yeah, that was my original point on not introducing v3. I am fine either way. The fact that we are debating on this for two weeks already makes me inclined towards v2 with no partial responses and without v3. v3 can be introduced once CL is ready to consume it
00:27:40	Potuz:	but that' s my point
00:27:42	pawan:	Reacted to "yeah, that was my or..." with ğŸ™
00:27:44	Derek Lee:	Replying to "We already annoucned..."

Multidimensional gas is one of them that we are already taking steps to implement
00:27:46	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "EVM L2s differentiat..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:48	Marius van der Wijden:	Simple code size increase would be possible on L2s though imo
00:27:52	Dustin:	Reacted to "yeah, that was my ..." with ğŸ™
00:27:58	Potuz:	have 7907 without increases and then L2 can simply change the limit in their code
00:28:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "have 7907 without ..."

But they can do it already with the current scheme
00:28:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	if we reduce it, we should just do Giulioâ€™s EIP
00:28:44	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "But they can do it a..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:44	Francesco:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

Agreed that this debate has gone on way too long and itâ€™s better to do kick the can down the road than continue having it
00:28:54	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

OTOH, [`null`, `null`, column_c, column_d] in V2 is the invalid response right? CLs will have to handle this somehow even if partials arenâ€™t supported
00:29:16	Barnabas:	This sounds more uncertain than EOF wasâ€¦
00:29:28	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

"handle" can include reject/ignore
00:29:34	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

it just means don't crash
00:29:44	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to This sounds more unc... with "ğŸ’¯"
00:29:45	Trent:	Do people really agree that a simple increase (not code chunking) would really not be considered for glamsterdam? (As LC argues)
00:29:51	Derek Lee:	Just repeating lightclientâ€™s point: if not now, then when?
00:29:59	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Do people really a..."

I think I disagree
00:30:10	stokes:	Replying to "Just repeating light..."

Not sure why we couldnt revisit this in glamsterdam
00:30:21	Trent:	Reacted to "Not sure why we coul..." with ğŸ‘†
00:30:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	temperature check:
ğŸ‘ for no change
ğŸ‘ for Giulioâ€™s EIP (bump to 32kb)
ğŸ”¥ for 7907 (48kb and new pricing)
00:30:27	Francesco:	Reacted to "Not sure why we coul..." with ğŸ‘†
00:30:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Just repeating light..."

idk, Code Chunking + BAL on the EL doesn't seem nuts to me
00:30:35	draganrakita:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:40	stokes:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:40	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Not sure why we coul..." with ğŸ‘†
00:30:40	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:41	FLCL:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:42	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:43	Jared Wasinger:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:47	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:49	Mario Vega:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "This sounds more unc..." with ğŸ’¯
00:30:51	Derek Lee:	add ğŸ”¥
00:30:53	felix (eest):	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:55	draganrakita:	I need to call more people ğŸ˜„
00:30:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	add ğŸ‘
00:30:58	Francesco:	Replying to "Just repeating light..."

+1, doesnâ€™t seem like Glamsterdam will have a large EL-focused headliner
00:31:01	Potuz:	Reacted to "I need to call more ..." with ğŸ˜„
00:31:04	marek:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:07	Charles (vyper):	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ”¥
00:31:11	Barnabas:	add ğŸ¼
00:31:18	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:19	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

right, how ignoring in the case of failure  differs from ignoring a valid partial response?
00:31:21	felipe:	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:28	Parithosh Jayanthi:	add ğŸ¼
00:31:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ«¡
00:31:37	Justin Florentine (Besu):	add ğŸ‘
00:31:43	spencer:	Reacted to "temperature check:
â€¦" with ğŸ¼
00:31:45	Fredrik:	Reacted to "temperature check:
â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:31:46	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	add ğŸ¼
00:31:49	spencer:	Reacted to "temperature check:
â€¦" with ğŸ§ª
00:31:54	pk910:	Reacted to "temperature check:
?..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:05	Trent:	Assuming perfect execution, One or two hard forks could be +12 months (but I lean for an imperfect solution in glamsterdam)
00:32:06	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to temperature check:
?... with "ğŸ‘"
00:32:12	Derek Lee:	Reacted to "Optimistically, One ..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:24	pawan:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

From the PR to revert partial responses, 
 
if the request is `[A_versioned_hash, B_versioned_hash, C_versioned_hash]` and client software has data for blobs `A` and `C`, but doesn't have data for `B`, the response **MUST** be `null`.
00:32:29	pawan:	This is for V2 ^
00:32:32	felipe:	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ§ª
00:32:35	nixo:	add ğŸ¼
00:32:43	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ§
00:33:01	Milos:	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ¼
00:33:07	Dustin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

it might (depends on details of error handling) manifest as an EL failure or bug @Mikhail Kalinin
00:33:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Panda has officially overtaken Giulioâ€™s EIP as leading replacement candidate
00:33:43	Shantikiran Chanal:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ”¥
00:33:44	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ¼
00:33:44	stokes:	Lets do it
00:33:45	nixo:	Reacted to "Panda has officially..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:51	Carson | STEEL:	Reacted to "temperature check:
?..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:54	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "temperature check:
ï¿½..." with ğŸ¼
00:34:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	So simpler proposal in glamsterdam seems like a potential outcome right?
00:34:04	felix (eest):	Reacted to "temperature check:
..." with ğŸ¼
00:34:06	Carson | STEEL:	Reacted to "temperature check:
?..." with ğŸ¼
00:34:06	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9986
00:34:19	Charles (vyper):	ğŸ¼ğŸ˜¥
00:34:20	stokes:	Replying to "So simpler proposal ..."

Or even 7907 itself in glamsterdam
00:34:23	mirgee:	Reacted to "temperature check:
?..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:27	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Or even 7907 itself ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:34:28	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	add ğŸ¼
00:34:32	Barnabas:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-devnet-3
00:34:35	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Or even 7907 itself ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:34:43	FLCL:	Reacted to "Or even 7907 itself ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:34:43	mirgee:	Reacted to "temperature check:
?..." with ğŸ¼
00:34:48	Justin Florentine (Besu):	which way to the latest code chunking designs?
00:34:59	Roman:	add ğŸ‘
00:35:04	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "7907 and getblobsv3"

yes, the thing is that CL will have a codepath for this case anyway, it can log â€œapparently partial response received, ignored due to lack of support yetâ€ instead of â€œEL failure: invalid response due to unexpected null valueâ€
00:35:08	Barnabas:	target 23rd of Jul
00:35:16	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:17	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:18	Roman:	add ğŸ¼
00:35:18	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:19	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:20	marek:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:21	spencer:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:28	stokes:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‰
00:35:31	pawan:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:31	Barnabas:	Only open question is engine_getBlobsV3
00:35:32	pawan:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‰
00:35:50	stokes:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

Lets make a final decision Monday, if we canâ€™t do it async before
00:35:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

Whatâ€™s the open questions there?
00:35:56	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "target 23rd of Jul" with ğŸ‘
00:35:58	stokes:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

If we want it or not
00:35:59	pawan:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

I think we should kill it
00:36:21	Dustin:	Replying to "Only open question..."

agree
00:36:25	Mario Vega:	Replying to "target 23rd of Jul"

We are almost ready for an eest release, weâ€™ll update on the R&D server when it happens so everybody can test for consensus issues
00:36:30	stokes:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

Could be useful to get ELâ€™s take today tho
00:37:06	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:37:10	pawan:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

Nobodyâ€™s gonna consume the endpoint. Why should it be a devnet target?
00:37:12	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "a0j7dn.jpg"

4 months is more than a second ğŸ˜„
00:37:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	If we really add overall an extra full month to rollout here (extra time before first testnet, and again before mainnet), how are we thinking about not losing that time for the next fork (here Glamsterdam)?
00:37:16	Charles (vyper):	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ˜…
00:37:17	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:37:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ˜…
00:37:26	marek:	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:37:27	Trent:	Reacted to "Or even 7907 itself ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:37:55	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "If we really add ove..."

then we really need to get better at staged work basically
00:37:55	stokes:	Replying to "If we really add ove..."

I think we should trim some time on the testnet timing
00:37:57	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "Only open question i..."

strictly, it cannot be a devnet target
00:38:01	stokes:	Replying to "If we really add ove..."

So we have more room to harden implementations
00:38:40	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "a0j7dn.jpg"

I know, I just wanted to make a meme
00:39:24	Potuz:	Am I the only one that thinks the Devconnect deadline is a little bit ridiculous? it' s fine to aim for it, but if we can't we can't and just simply schedule a month later, it's not a big deal. Safely testing would make us all sleep better
00:39:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "If we really add ove..."

We also have glamsterdam that would start ramping up around this time, so this is shortening time.
00:39:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

i think it is also an "end of year" holidays concern
00:39:52	stokes:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

I think we should try and see what it would take to get there
00:39:55	Dustin:	testnets breaking is an optics risk and needs buy-in to be willing to just kill/recycle the testnet
00:40:00	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "i think it is also a..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:00	Dustin:	that did not happen last time
00:40:03	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

It is a bit arbitrary, but 0 deadline probably means we donâ€™t ship this year?
00:40:12	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

Hmâ€¦ I wanted late August ;)
00:40:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "If we really add ove..."

If weâ€™re doing one fork at a time, I agree we can reduce times
00:40:19	Potuz:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

yeah I agree with the end of day, but if we're talking not about work, but actually setting up the release schedule, it should be fine
00:40:20	Barnabas:	we can always just launch hoodi v2
00:40:22	Trent:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

December/jan is historically hard to coordinate through
00:40:28	Dustin:	Replying to "Am I the only one ..."

agree with Potuz
00:40:31	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we can always just l..." with ğŸ¤¡
00:40:56	spencer:	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:41:00	Dustin:	Replying to "Am I the only one ..."

@Trent then February. I get the push really hard thing, maybe it's too much? The compromises are clear
00:41:02	spencer:	Reacted to "we can always just lâ€¦" with ğŸ¤¡
00:41:03	Potuz:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

I think we should aim for September on testnets, but if we don't get there, it's fine to delay a couple of weeks at the last moment, they are testnets
00:41:05	Trent:	Itâ€™s not just an optics risk, companies and projects depend on stable staging/test env, migrating has huge overhead
00:41:15	Dustin:	Replying to "Am I the only one ..."

But the main thing is, if anything goes wrong
00:41:20	Francesco:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

@Dustin going from November to February is precisely the concern
00:41:23	Dustin:	Replying to "Am I the only one ..."

are people willing to delay
00:41:27	pawan:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

Agree that itâ€™s very optimistic. But Iâ€™d still like to target it (including all safety testing of course)
00:41:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

The explicit feedback we received from plenty of community members is that we have to reduce testnet churn
00:41:35	saulius:	We could simply ship asap on Holesky. That's OK if it dies.
00:41:36	Potuz:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

Yeah I agree that we should not delay longer than 2025
00:41:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we can always just l..." with ğŸ¤¡
00:41:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "We could simply ship..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:41:49	Potuz:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

2025 should be a hard deadline unless there's a big bug found
00:41:53	Dustin:	Replying to "Am I the only one ..."

there are already significant testing shortcuts, already discussed here
00:41:58	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "We could simply ship..." with ğŸ˜
00:42:14	Potuz:	Reacted to "we can always just l..." with ğŸ¤¡
00:42:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

we haven't really sorted out the conflation of intent since last time ğŸ™
00:42:25	Potuz:	Reacted to "We could simply ship..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:36	Trent:	Replying to "Am I the only one th..."

@Dustin feb is a coordination failure imo
00:42:38	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "We could simply sh..." with ğŸ˜¢
00:43:06	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "a0j7dn.jpg" with ğŸ¤£
00:43:09	Trent:	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

Not clear what â€œconflation of intentâ€ means here
00:43:13	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "We could simply ship..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:44:11	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "We could simply ship..."

Set a last BPO to 512 and let it die with a big boom
00:44:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

different actors need the same things from the same networks for different reasons: everyone wants mainnet simulation, we want it because we want to break it, apps want it because they want to develop against it. it's a fundamental dilemma
00:44:22	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:23	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to 51..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to 51..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:30	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to 51..." with ğŸ’¥
00:44:30	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "We could simply ship..."

@Enrico Del Fante (tbenr) hahahahah
00:44:31	Potuz:	Re: getBlobV3, Manu has been saying for a while that it's imperative to test Peer-DAS without any getBlobs version, devnets apparently were never stable without them
00:44:40	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to 51..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:42	mpaulucci | ethrex:	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to 51..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:43	Trent:	(Edit, forgot that hole sky is being sunset)

Again, testnets dying is not good
00:44:56	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Set a last BPO to 51..." with ğŸ’¥
00:45:04	Dustin:	Replying to "Re: getBlobV3, Man..."

Yes, discussed earlier in this call, agree
00:45:05	Mario Vega:	PSA that we have  eth_config  (https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7910) and tests for it now, please reach out to the R&D server for instructions on how to run them: https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1392648788371570838
00:45:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Yes, discussed earli..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:45:17	Potuz:	Reacted to "Yes, discussed earli..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:46:10	terence:	Replying to "Re: getBlobV3, Manu ..."

I've been testing devnet2 without get blobs on prysm, no both normal node and full super node. The data looks good, but we need large scale testing, and preferably ethpandaops take over this
00:46:27	pawan:	Agree as well. Sunny side labs have been doing these tests quite often iirc
00:47:00	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "PSA that we have  et..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:04	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

Can we just shadow fork a testnet and then upgrade that for us to do what we want on it?
00:47:12	Potuz:	I agree with Saulius, Holesky being killed right before sunsetting it is not a big risk
00:47:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I agree with Saulius..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:28	felix (eest):	Reacted to "I agree with Sauli..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:38	Dustin:	CLs still tend to support Holesky
00:47:45	Dustin:	in a way they don't support random devnet
00:47:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

We would do that, the issue is that peerdas is a networking update and a shadow fork is basically just a devnet. It teaches us nothing new.
00:47:51	Fredrik:	When Breaknets ?
00:47:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "testnets breaking is..."

But yes it gets config issues out of the way
00:48:02	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "When Breaknets ?" with ğŸ’¯
00:48:04	mpaulucci | ethrex:	Reacted to "When Breaknets ?" with ğŸ’¯
00:48:06	pawan:	Reacted to "When Breaknets ?" with ğŸ’¯
00:48:19	saulius:	Reacted to "I agree with Saulius..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "When Breaknets ?"

We need fusaka-devnet-3 first. Otherwise its just wasting money
00:48:27	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "When Breaknets ?"

lets turn off the chainid safeties on the breaknets and just replay testnet traffic into it
00:48:40	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Holesky consensus state is still big, it will be a nice stress test
00:48:50	Potuz:	+1
00:48:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "lets turn off the ch..." with ğŸ‘€
00:48:59	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "When Breaknets ?" with ğŸ’¯
00:49:04	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I agree with Saulius..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "When Breaknets ?"

We already do this with a mempool bridge
00:49:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "We already do this w..." with ğŸ™
00:49:31	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We already do this w..." with ğŸ”¥
00:50:07	Potuz:	The one thing with Holesky is that It's surely going to be a non-finalizing test: I don't expect we would have enough time to convince NOs of upgrading on time
00:50:24	Potuz:	So even in the happy case
00:50:37	Potuz:	WTF???? all clients but 2 signalled 7732
00:50:44	Potuz:	Literally all clients but 2
00:50:50	Potuz:	set it as their preference
00:51:10	Barnabas:	Looking through all the clientâ€™s take:
EL pref:
block level access
focil
CL pref:
epbs
focil
00:51:23	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:24	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸš€
00:51:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	caveat: I think on EL side â€œheadlinersâ€ are less telling the full story.

I think EL focus should be scaling for Glamsterdam. That's BALs, but that's also a lot of benchmarking & repricing work. Not a headliner, but maybe the most important thing to do on EL side.
00:51:27	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸš€
00:51:28	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:33	Guru:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸš€
00:51:35	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Looking through al..." with ğŸš€
00:51:44	marek:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸš€
00:51:46	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸš€
00:51:46	marek:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:48	nixo:	Replying to "Looking through all ..."

terence did a good full overview: https://x.com/terencechain/status/1945837782376788296
00:52:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	for headliners i think its fine for ELs to have CL opinions, just not to be estimators of workload
00:52:16	Fredrik:	Reacted to "I agree with Sauliusâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:52:22	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "for headliners i thi..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:27	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it's all one ethereum
00:52:33	Barnabas:	Replying to "Looking through all ..."

I donâ€™t think we have ever had this much agreement on which headliners client teams want.
00:52:35	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "The one thing with H..."

I think there are still a lot of lagging clients considering the noise on the attestations.. so it wonâ€™t be a flawless transition for sure
00:52:39	marek:	Replying to "caveat: I think on E..."

yes,  strongly agree
00:52:41	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:41	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Looking through all ..." with ğŸš€
00:52:43	marek:	Reacted to "caveat: I think on E..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:07	draganrakita:	Dropping it from history aka p2p
00:53:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the topic came up at interop, what Ben said is right, we would generally want to drop the BALs pretty quickly
00:53:52	Tim Beiko:	Iâ€™m not sure we should create a dependency between BAL and rolling history expiry. We didnâ€™t do that for blob data.
00:54:01	Marius van der Wijden:	We should keep them for a decent amount of time for improving snap sync
00:54:04	Ben Adams:	Want to keep them at least for snap sync period
00:54:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the topic came up at..."

BALs are different from normal history, because you can always re-build them locally
00:54:08	Roman:	Reacted to "Want to keep them at..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:11	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Want to keep them at..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:12	Potuz:	Would we be in a place where you'd need BALs to sync and won't be possible without? cause then you'd need to request them when snap syncing
00:54:12	Marius van der Wijden:	Like on the order of ~ 1 month
00:54:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Want to keep them at..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:16	Francesco:	Reacted to "caveat: I think on E..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:21	Potuz:	ahh jinx
00:54:24	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Want to keep them at..."

thats like 128 blocks
00:54:27	Potuz:	Reacted to "Want to keep them at..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:27	Barnabas:	It feels like we could comfortably SFI 7928 (BAL) and 7732 (ePBS) for glamsterdam today, and CFI 7805 (focil).
00:54:37	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Want to keep them at..."

but we should keep them for like a week or two
00:54:43	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "but we should keep..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:49	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Want to keep them at..."

sure, longer is fine too :)
00:54:53	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:54:54	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸš€
00:54:55	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to It feels like we cou... with "â•"
00:54:55	Potuz:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:54:56	Potuz:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸš€
00:55:01	Bastin:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:08	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Want to keep them at..."

might be useful for nodes to catch up if they are offline for some amount of time
00:55:09	Bastin:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:55:12	Bastin:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸš€
00:55:13	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:14	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:55:15	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸš€
00:55:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:55:15	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:55:20	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

I think we should wait a bit before CFI/SFIâ€™ing headliners. Thereâ€™s no rush to do it, but maybe we should make it clear that all the other ones (at least EL) are â€œDFIâ€â€™d?
00:55:23	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:55:30	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "might be useful for ..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:39	Barnabas:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

epbs-devnet-0 next week?
00:55:49	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:49	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

I thought it was already implemented ğŸ˜„
00:55:50	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸš€
00:55:51	Potuz:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

Need to merge a couple of PRs yet
00:56:18	Barnabas:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

and please rebase on top of fulu
00:56:26	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸš€
00:56:27	Potuz:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

that will take longer
00:56:29	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with â•
00:56:30	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "It feels like we cou..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:39	Potuz:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

we want to test first implementations on top of Electra
00:56:46	Potuz:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

at least the two teams that implemented them
00:56:59	Barnabas:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

okay, so devnet-0 by first week of aug? ğŸ˜„
00:57:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	wait @Justin Florentine (Besu) you say you don't want to split headliners, but then you mention both ePBS and FOCIL
00:57:10	Dustin:	how important is exactly one theme as a constraint? it seems arbitrary
00:57:19	stokes:	Replying to "It feels like we cou..."

Nope, lets focus on fusaka
00:57:28	Ansgar Dietrichs:	ePBS is scaling theme
00:57:34	Francesco:	Reacted to "how important is exa..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:34	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "how important is exa..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:37	pawan:	Reacted to "how important is exa..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:41	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Would we be in a pla..."

so depends:for snap sync, yes we will request them, and at some point of MGas/s there are EDGE cases where BAL's will be life-saving, but this windows is very short (128-192 blocks)For archive processing, BAL's will speed up things for just processing, but with decent hardware shouldn't be necessary
00:57:46	thomasthiery:	What makes the difference between a headliner and not a headliner?
00:57:46	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "how important is exa..."

Yeah I think it should be about non-overlapping code changes
00:58:01	Potuz:	Replying to "Would we be in a pla..."

Thanks!
00:58:06	Åukasz Rozmej:	I propose to rename BAL's to BALLs
00:58:06	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

Max 1 headliner per layer, and canâ€™t re-propose headliners as vanilla EIPs
00:58:07	Ben Adams:	Needs a fancier name?
00:58:11	Dustin:	Replying to "What makes the dif..."

a headliner is an EIP that gets considered earlier, that's apparently it
00:58:14	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:58:15	Barnabas:	7907 properly with BAL
00:58:17	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:58:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	bals and code chunks?
00:58:24	nixo:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸ
00:58:27	Dustin:	Replying to "What makes the dif..."

I mean, people will say other things, but functionally that
00:58:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "What makes the dif..."

There's no clear distinction yet
00:58:29	nixo:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with âš¾
00:58:35	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:58:36	Potuz:	Reacted to "I mean, people will ..." with ğŸ˜
00:58:38	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸ‰
00:58:38	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I mean, people wil..." with ğŸ˜
00:58:39	nixo:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸˆ
00:58:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I propose to rename ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:58:46	Carson | STEEL:	Marketability/Branding * Impact
00:59:03	Toni Wahrstaetter:	BALs aren't big from in-protocol perspective but making proper use of them is additional work
00:59:18	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "I propose to renam..." with ğŸ±
00:59:28	thomasthiery:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

Right that was my feeling as well. If itâ€™s more about signaling candidates on ethmagicians then I donâ€™t understand why it couldnâ€™t be repurposed as vanilla EIPS
00:59:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	agree with Ben, BALs are small if you just talk spec compliance. but they are much heavier to fully utilize them for higher performance
00:59:35	Roman:	Replying to "BALs aren't big from..."

i agree and would still put them at medium scope of work
00:59:40	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

Because realistically we wonâ€™t have bandwidth for them
00:59:53	FLCL:	having bals to talk about eof
00:59:55	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

e.g. I do think FOCIL and EPBS/BALs is not realistic
01:00:04	thomasthiery:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

But if headliners are not correlated with implementation complexity how does this make sense
01:00:05	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	hardfork would be delayed for headliners until ready but not for non-headliners, they would just get dropped?
01:00:08	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

Or, say, shorter slots if EPBS
01:00:15	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

@thomasthiery they should be
01:00:22	Justin Florentine (Besu):	what fresh hell have you all unleashed....
01:00:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

â€œcanâ€™t re-propose headliners as vanilla EIPsâ€ - why? decision could be that BALs are too small for headliner
01:00:26	Carson | STEEL:	Reacted to "Marius van der Wijde..." with ğŸ¤£
01:00:46	Roman:	we should also stop calling it BALs, because itâ€™s not just the access list in the current iteration and itâ€™s confusing to folks who are not that familiar with the proposal
01:00:56	thomasthiery:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

@Tim Beiko but they are not in practice, itâ€™s just about whether they were posted on ethmagicians or not
01:01:00	stokes:	Replying to "we should also stop ..."

What should we call it?
01:01:10	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "â€œcanâ€™t re-propose he..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:14	Sophia Gold:	From a zkEVM (by far most significant tool for scaling) perspective, the hard requirements are either ePBS or DE in Glamsterdam and FOCIL in either Glamsterdam or the subsequent fork
01:01:18	Roman:	Replying to "we should also stop ..."

let me ask claude
01:01:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	is repricing a â€œheadlinerâ€ though?
01:01:53	Wei Han Ng:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2926
01:01:57	Ben Adams:	Replying to "is repricing a â€œhead..."

Is major as every single test would need to change?
01:01:59	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "What makes the diffe..."

Sure, itâ€™s our first time doing this, not perfect, but I think if we remove an EIP from headliner because itâ€™s too small, thatâ€™s maybe fine, but we shouldnâ€™t do it for â€œobviousâ€ hedliners
01:02:06	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "â€œcanâ€™t re-propose he..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:08	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with ğŸ™
01:02:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "is repricing a â€œhead..."

Iâ€™d be happy to write a â€œrepricing for scalingâ€ headliner proposal
01:02:12	Wei Han Ng:	Replying to "https://eips.ethereu..."

this is the current code chunking EIP
01:02:27	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "agree with Ben, BA..."

Execution is not that big of a lift, the biggest one ist the snap syncing optimizations
01:02:37	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d be happy to writ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:02:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Execution is not tha..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:50	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "is repricing a â€œhead..."

Maybe the headliner should just be â€œscaling"?
01:02:52	Toni Wahrstaetter:	I'm not sure if we would want to do another "EL headliner" alongside BALs and potentially ePBS or FOCIL. This sounds like enough.
01:03:12	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I'm not sure if we w..."

I think those three are probably too much in a single fork?
01:03:12	Dustin:	meh, ePBS doesn't imply more centralization, it just acknowledges that it's already centralized
01:03:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "we should also sto..."

block witnesses :P
01:03:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I'm not sure if we w..."

right, I think the only option would be to swap BALs and repricing as headliner vs normal EIP
01:03:31	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "From a zkEVM (by far..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:35	Potuz:	Replying to "I'm not sure if we w..."

BALs and ePBS are completely independent, FOCIL can be accomodated IMO
01:03:39	Francesco:	Replying to "I'm not sure if we w..."

Epbs on CL (fully contained), BALs + repricing on EL seems doable, whether you want to call the latter headliners or not
01:03:42	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Maybe the headliner ..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:50	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we should also stop ..." with ğŸ‰
01:03:50	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Epbs on CL (fully co..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:51	nixo:	Reacted to "Epbs on CL (fully co..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:55	Potuz:	Replying to "I'm not sure if we w..."

@BarnabasÂ yet again got it right
01:04:03	Potuz:	Reacted to "Epbs on CL (fully co..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:04	Barnabas:	If EL devs want more than just BALs they can also have EOF ğŸ˜‚
01:04:06	FLCL:	in addition to the headliner: 7907 + repricing + parts of pureth?
01:04:08	Lion dapplion:	After of another week I more against EIP-7732, and in favor of 7886
01:04:13	Roman:	Replying to "we should also stop ..."

iâ€™m failing at LLMing, need more time
01:04:13	DA | Flashbots:	Feels hard to disentangle EL/CL, If ePBS isnâ€™t chosen, is the preference still BALs > DE?
01:04:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	can we briefly talk about ePBS + FOCIL? it keeps coming up. can we decide whether this would be an ACDC-only topic?
01:04:17	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "If EL devs want more..." with ğŸ”¥
01:04:24	Dustin:	Replying to "in addition to the..."

Nimbus obviously in favor of Pureth
01:04:25	Lion dapplion:	I am writing a piece with detailed rationale that I hope to publish tomorrow
01:04:28	Som - Erigon:	ePBS = "Ethereum failed to decentralize"
01:04:30	sean:	Reacted to "I am writing a pie..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:38	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "If EL devs want more..." with ğŸ”¥
01:04:43	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I am writing a piece..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "can we briefly talk ..."

I personally am very hesitant about ePBS + FOCIL in one fork
01:04:52	stokes:	Replying to "After of another wee..."

why?
01:04:55	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I am writing a pie..."

about?
01:04:58	Dustin:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum f..."

yes, past tense (perfect)
01:05:01	Francesco:	Reacted to "I personally am very..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:02	terence:	FOCIL -> more changes on CL rather than EL, as someone that looked at implementations on both sides
01:05:16	kev:	Reacted to "Epbs on CL (fully co..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:22	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think both need to happen before restructuring slot timing.
01:05:23	stokes:	Replying to "I am writing a piece..."

I think this was his comment above that he is against 7732
01:05:33	Dustin:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum f..."

MEV exists, it won, block building will continue to centralize
01:05:34	Jihoon:	Replying to "FOCIL -> more change..."

As another person who looked both implementations, I can second this.
01:05:34	Potuz:	Reacted to "yes, past tense (per..." with ğŸ˜„
01:05:39	Barnabas:	Replying to "FOCIL -> more change..."

since when do you impl EL? ğŸ˜„
01:05:50	Lion dapplion:	I donâ€™t feel the urgency to enshrine the role of the builder on-chain and we can achieve the same scaling benefits with delayed execution and decoupling. Less complexity and we donâ€™t commit to a specific ePBS flavor yet
01:05:52	Jihoon:	Replying to "FOCIL -> more change..."

Terence reviewed Geth impl
01:06:08	Charles C:	Would it be worth re-proposing 7903? Remove or at least increase initcode limit
01:06:13	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum f..."

Why should resources be spent for that? There would be innovations off-protocol, and it's one of those
01:06:17	Åukasz Rozmej:	ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fine...
01:06:25	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:06:28	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:06:29	Barnabas:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:06:31	Jihoon:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:06:37	Marius van der Wijden:	I think repricings/BALs are more important than FOCIL at the moment for the EL. If we decide to not do FOCIl, we should consider doing optional inclusion lists
01:06:43	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with ğŸ”¥
01:06:44	Francesco:	Replying to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..."

Easy for you to say, itâ€™s all CL lol
01:06:50	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:06:51	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..."

might even defect to Teku to make this happen
01:06:52	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Easy for you to say,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:53	Jihoon:	Reacted to "Easy for you to say,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:07:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:07:04	Lion dapplion:	In essence, take EIP-7732 and delete all the fork-choice changes, the bid market and the builder role
01:07:05	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum fai..."

giving people more time to propagate the block is failure of decentralization?I don't get it...
01:07:06	stokes:	Replying to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..."

Yeah, I think epbs and focil would be a lot to do in one fork
01:07:06	terence:	Replying to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..."

right, I think.. FOCIL + BAL is fine. FOCIL + EPBS is what needs debate
01:07:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the conversation around ePBS is confusing to me.

ePBS is a specific (very good!) opinionated version of slot restructuring plus delayed execution. main benefit is significant scaling, more slot time available for propagation + execution.

implications around decentralization are mostly remnants of past discussions imo, very little real impact
01:07:09	Ben Adams:	EL headliner, CL headliner and EL+CL headliner:)
01:07:12	stokes:	Replying to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..."

Just in terms of scope
01:07:23	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "the conversation a..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:46	Roman:	well, we do care about ePBS implementation, we are just not the ones implementing it
01:07:46	Trent:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

Yeah, im still a bit confused about the temporary name change to â€œexecution payload separation"
01:07:51	Barnabas:	Potuz agrees with me 3 acd in a row?
01:07:52	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Replying to "is repricing a â€œhead..."

This would yet be another headliner. Repricing should be a no-brainer inclusion, doesn't matter if headliner or not.
01:07:56	Roman:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:07:56	Roman:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with ğŸ”¥
01:07:57	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:07:58	Roman:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:05	Francesco:	Replying to "In essence, take EIP..."

I donâ€™t disagree with the broader point, but note that decoupling does come with fork-choice changes regardless of whether the PTC exists (they are not too bad though)
01:08:11	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "EL headliner, CL hea..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:14	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "EL headliner, CL hea..."

1 for each
01:08:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

â€œePBS for scalingâ€ - valid, it will be high impact there

â€œePBS for censorship resistance / decentralizationâ€ - I think thatâ€™s mostly a meaningless thing to say
01:08:18	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with ..." with ğŸ¤¯
01:08:24	pk910:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:26	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:30	pawan:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:30	sean:	Reacted to "well, we do care a..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:41	Justin Florentine (Besu):	"where's Ethereums AMBITION?!?!?" -cryptotwitter, probably
01:08:48	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "â€œePBS for scalingâ€ -..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:50	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "â€œePBS for scalingâ€ -..." with â•
01:08:52	FLCL:	Replying to "in addition to the h..."

Might be good to make all clients ssz ready, upgrade some apis - make pureth easier to handle later
01:08:58	Trent:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

â€œePBS for censorship resistance / decentralizationâ€ - I think thatâ€™s mostly a meaningless thing to say

There seem to be a lot of people (core devs and community/stakers) who believe this is true
01:09:01	Dustin:	Replying to "the conversation a..."

well, my read is that it's becaue ePBS is the only EIP which acknowledges the existence of the external block building ecosystem
01:09:01	stokes:	Replying to ""where's Ethereums A..."

Id rather have more focused, more frequent forks
01:09:09	stokes:	Replying to ""where's Ethereums A..."

Which just suggests FOCIL in H-star IMO
01:09:09	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "well, my read is tha..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:09:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "is repricing a â€œhead..."

repricing should be details EIP to be honest, in terms of implementation and testing it is fairly easy, need thoroughness though,
01:09:15	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "in addition to the h..."

Lodestar as well, we see the benefits there on CL+EL
01:09:21	Potuz:	Reacted to "well, my read is tha..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:09:33	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "in addition to the h..."

Been pushing for SSZing for a while now
01:09:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

it doesnâ€™t though, I think the predictions of how it will change that ecosystem are very naive
01:09:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

so if that would be the justification for it, I would strongly oppose ePBS
01:09:52	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

It doesn't need to be a reason for inclusion, but it is nonetheless a useful property, like it or not
01:09:52	Dustin:	Replying to "the conversation a..."

yes, it allows separate signing of the payload by the "relay" / builder
01:09:55	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

I like it for scaling though
01:09:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "the conversation aro..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:01	Dustin:	Replying to "the conversation a..."

that's qualitatively new
01:10:12	Roman:	Reacted to "giving people more t..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:13	Barnabas:	I have heard rumors that implemnting epbs takes 1 unit time.
Implementing focil takes 1 unit of time. 

Implementing focil + epbs doesnâ€™t take 2 units of time, but rather takes 1.1 unit of time.
01:10:16	FLCL:	Replying to "in addition to the h..."

which part of pureth would you bring firstly?
01:10:27	Barnabas:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

so we might as well bundle it
01:10:31	stokes:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

disagree
01:10:31	Potuz:	FOCIL should be submitted as a vanilla EIP regardless of what comes out of headliner inclusion
01:10:36	stokes:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

Best case it would be like 1.5
01:10:45	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "it doesnâ€™t though, I..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:46	mpaulucci | ethrex:	Reacted to "Id rather have more ..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:48	stokes:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

And just seems like a lot to all test together
01:10:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

right, but there were many delayed execution variants that had that as well. my skepticism is specifically around the unconditional payment
01:10:53	Roman:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum fai..."

could Erigon team please expand on this opinion? these takes are unclear for other participants
01:10:57	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

Itâ€™s less than 2 but not 90% less
01:11:02	stokes:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

Worst case it becomes like 2.3
01:11:04	Potuz:	Reacted to "giving people more t..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:10	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "giving people more t..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we have to accommodate scheduling synergies when we find them
01:11:19	Barnabas:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

potuzâ€™s copium juice
01:11:25	James He:	Reacted to "giving people more t..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:27	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "â€œePBS for scaling..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:29	Dustin:	Replying to "in addition to the..."

FLCL: https://pureth.guide/implementations-ssz/
01:11:36	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "MEV exists, it won, ..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:40	Trent:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

Iâ€™d love to know how relays/ MEV pipeline feel this will play out practically
01:11:43	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "giving people more t..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:45	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "it doesnâ€™t though..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:49	Cayman Nava:	Replying to "in addition to the h..."

maybe eth transfer logs 7708, 7799?
01:11:59	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "could Erigon team pl..." with â•
01:11:59	stokes:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

Going to bring up in the mev-boost community call next week
01:12:03	Potuz:	Replying to "I have heard rumors ..."

lol yes, no one really knows. Terence is the actual only person in the world able to evaluate this
01:12:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I would want Glamsterdam live on mainnet in April 2026.

I donâ€™t think with ePBS + FOCIL that is realistic
01:12:20	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

Weâ€™ll hopefully post something before next week. Just slow internally having never done this before.
01:12:21	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d love to know how..." with â•
01:12:22	stokes:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

@Trent https://titanbuilder.substack.com/p/builders-and-relays-in-epbs
01:12:25	James He:	Reacted to "could Erigon team pl..." with â•
01:12:36	terence:	here is my 2c:
- FOCIL is more on the CL then on the EL. FOCIL is fairly easy on the EL, just 2-3 engine api implementation.
- FOCIL shouldn't be a EL headliner rather than a CL headliner discussion
- Any EL headliner + FOCIL should be fine, but this is outside my domain
- The real debate is Epbs + FOCIL, but ACDC may be a better venue for this
01:12:37	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ll hopefully post..." with ğŸ”¥
01:12:39	Roman:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

ePBS + FOCIL + 6s slot times. we need to lock CL devs in a room until then!!!
01:12:40	Trent:	Reacted to "@Trent https://titan..." with ğŸ™
01:12:47	thomasthiery:	Makes sense. Just feels like dropping FOCIL because it touches both layers (more CL than EL) and is not big enough to be a solo headliner, and too small to be a vanilla EIP is a bit trick.
01:12:47	Potuz:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:59	Barnabas:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

ELs will have too much time on their hand
01:13:08	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

But we expect relays to be bypassed â€”> switches auction to sealed bid. Which we think is much healthier for the Network.
01:13:11	Dustin:	Replying to "in addition to the..."

Also depends on SSZ. One option is EIP-7916/EIP-7495/EIP-7688, the SSZ trio
01:13:22	wolovim:	Reacted to "ELs will have too ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:13:26	Dustin:	Replying to "in addition to the..."

or rather those don't, sorry, those can be separate
01:13:28	thomasthiery:	Replying to "Makes sense. Just fe..."

And it feels like FOCIL will probably always be in that position as well. For future forks too I mean.
01:13:30	Dustin:	Replying to "in addition to the..."

so sure
01:13:38	Jihoon:	Reacted to "And it feels like FO..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:40	stokes:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

Time for maintenance, refactoring etc
01:13:46	Ben Adams:	Also have to verify the BALs are correct
01:13:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	if we do ePBS + BALs + repricing, and basically nothing else in Glamsterdam, thatâ€™s a realistic scope.

And would be the largest single-fork throughput bump in the history of Ethereum. Might only ever be topped by the fork that enshrines zkEVM.
01:13:51	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "here is my 2c:
- FOC..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:59	Justin Florentine (Besu):	only the ones that are out of protocol
01:14:12	Potuz:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

lol
01:14:14	Trent:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ll hopefully post..." with ğŸ™
01:14:24	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "if we do ePBS + BALs..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:25	Bastin:	Reacted to "if we do ePBS + BALs..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:27	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum f..."

Please read the comment on the pm thread and the linked post
01:14:28	stokes:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

How would you get cancellations in this structure?
01:14:40	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

dude, i couldn't even convince this crowd to take a week off after pectra
01:14:45	Potuz:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

Ansgar, no fork is viable in April, not with Fusaka happening end of year
01:14:53	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum fai..."

What comment? What linked post?
01:15:05	Barnabas:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

epbs-devnet-0 by end of this week
01:15:20	pawan:	Reacted to "Ansgar, no fork is v..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

it's already running in potuz's basement
01:15:36	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

Yeah no fork seems likely in April. That would basically imply we start forking in feb after having shipped a fork in nov.
01:15:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

@Potuz I don't think that's true, e.g. just BALs plus repricing would be ready by then. if ePBS isn't, we should reconsider it
01:15:51	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

Thatâ€™s the main open question that weâ€™re spending time on.
01:15:58	Dustin:	Reacted to "Ansgar, no fork is..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:01	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

I can't heart DA's coment, no emojis here
01:16:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	well it seems clear that stakeholders want scaling, no?
01:16:12	Barnabas:	are BALs and repricing worth its own fork? without epbs
01:16:16	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "I can't heart DA's c..." with â¤ï¸
01:16:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "well it seems clear ..."

like this one seems easy in terms of visibility of preferences
01:16:32	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

cancellations is not an issue: you request only once, it's  a pull system
01:16:34	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

not a push system
01:16:45	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum fai..."

The only thing erigon said about ePBS was that it doesnâ€™t fit with the overall goals - this is false - ePBS is way better for scaling and minimizing overhead which allows you to minimize latency
01:16:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

I also think weâ€™d get everyone putting all of their attention on these two only in Jan realistically. So assuming no one finds anything and we start shipping in feb seems unrealistic as well.
01:16:52	Marius van der Wijden:	Hard to reach out to people being censored on chain atm
01:16:53	FLCL:	Reacted to "maybe eth transfer l..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:56	FLCL:	Reacted to "Also depends on SSZ...." with ğŸ‘
01:17:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

And paying attention to it before Jan implies we arenâ€™t focussed on fusaka and will distract fusaka
01:17:13	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum f..."

Slot restructuring is what u r referring to
01:17:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Hard to reach out to..." with ğŸ’¯
01:17:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

@Barnabas definitely! they would get us from 100M to say 200M
01:17:28	stokes:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

So even if a proposer calls me, Iâ€™d just block until I think I have my best bid as a builder?
01:17:30	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

Cancellations is really the free option problem. And weâ€™re trying to figure out if we agree with you that itâ€™s not a problem.
01:17:49	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

the proposer calls right before proposing,no need for any delay
01:17:54	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "the proposer calls r..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:08	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

that is the main point against the tx inclusion delay arc
01:18:10	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

also
01:18:11	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "ePBS = "Ethereum f..."

That one is cool
01:18:20	FLCL:	we will have a fork between osaka and amsterdam, right?
01:18:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "I would want Glamste..."

Also im no opposed to quick forks, im just presenting real facts of how this plays out
01:18:49	Barnabas:	We need at least 1 CL dev on epbs starting next week, if we wanna ship in realistic time glamsterdam
01:18:53	draganrakita:	Would be good to be open for gas price changes
01:18:59	Potuz:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

DA: I did not say that one is not a problem though, I acknowledge it, just think it's not something that worries me
01:19:04	Barnabas:	Replying to "We need at least 1 C..."

same as we did for peerdas
01:19:18	Marius van der Wijden:	Yes, the repricings will likely take more than a month to be finalized
01:19:20	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "Hard to reach out ..."

Yeah those who tried couldn't be reached either
01:19:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hard to reach out to..."

I think general agreement is that censorship today is not a problem - it's just this topic where we need to make sure it is in a great place before it ever becomes a problem
01:19:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Hard to reach out to..." with ğŸ’¯
01:19:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Yes, the repricing..."

We can propose stuff earlier than that
01:20:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hard to reach out to..."

easy to keep saying â€œit's not a priorityâ€. that will be true all the way until it wasnâ€™t.
01:20:07	Potuz:	Reacted to "Hard to reach out to..." with ğŸ’¯
01:20:09	Charles C:	Replying to "the conversation aro..." 

 Can we discuss 7903 as a replacement for 7907? It increases initcode only and doesn't touch state. It's not as ideal as 7907 but has some similar UX benefits since it allows you to deploy larger systems of contracts in one txn
01:20:18	Trent:	Replying to "we will have a fork ..."

No
01:20:33	stokes:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

I think you want to post in the outer chat thread
01:20:34	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "we will have a fork ..."

BPOs maybe
01:20:43	FLCL:	Replying to "we will have a fork ..."

Yeah I mean BPO
01:20:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I know ePBS is light on EL, but can someone briefly talk about what the very specific scope of changes would be?
01:20:53	terence:	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..."

there's 0 change
01:20:56	FLCL:	Replying to "we will have a fork ..."

Which may delay amsterdam, that's why mentioned
01:20:59	thomasthiery:	Censorship today not being a problem is very different than having a network resilient to censorship when it happens.
01:21:12	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Which may delay amst..." with ğŸ¤”
01:21:24	Charles C:	Replying to "the conversation aro..." 

 Ah thanks. On mobile
01:21:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think we should try to have a â€œBAL plus repricingâ€ devnet as soon as possible.

So we can use that as primary benchmarking target to iterate on the repricings
01:21:32	Marius van der Wijden:	Make the call for BALs now
01:21:35	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..."

may want to change time we have to build local block ğŸ™‚
01:21:36	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..."

FOCIL overlaps, ePBS does not
01:21:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:21:40	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "easy to keep saying ..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:40	Charles C:	Can we discuss 7903 as a replacement for 7907? It increases initcode only and doesn't touch state. It's not as ideal as 7907 but has some similar UX benefits since it allows you to deploy larger systems of contracts in one txn
01:21:41	Fredrik:	Reacted to "easy to keep saying â€¦" with ğŸ’¯
01:21:42	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Make the call for BA... with "â•"
01:21:43	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Make the call for ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:22:02	Potuz:	These two things are not incompatible and we are not taking time from eachother
01:22:09	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Replying to "Make the call for BA..."

yeah agree, I can setup regular breakouts
01:22:11	Barnabas:	Erigon is not a real CL team thoâ€¦
01:22:14	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Can we discuss 790..."

Not a headliner imo, should be proposed and strongly considered imo
01:22:17	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "the conversation aro..."

P: Right. Our view is that validators arenâ€™t incentivized to blacklist builders who fail to deliver because builders having the option to cancel makes blocks more valuable â€”> incentives validators to not care if delivery happens.
01:22:18	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..." 

 @Ben Adams constant change, will take a whole fork to implement :p
01:22:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Make the call for BA..."

wait Marius do you mean a call call, or a decision?
01:22:32	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Are we not waiting mid-August for headliner selection?
01:22:35	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..."

ğŸ˜‚
01:22:36	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Hard to reach out to..." with ğŸ’¯
01:22:38	stokes:	Replying to "Are we not waiting m..."

I think we should
01:22:44	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Make the call for ..."

I mean a decision to SFI
01:22:45	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..."

Nethermind already implemented ePBS ;)
01:22:46	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "Hard to reach out to..." with ğŸ’¯
01:22:54	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with â•
01:22:55	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:22:56	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Are we not waiting m..."

Signal now and focus on community input till then?
01:22:58	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Make the call for BA..."

I think we should wait at least until next ACDE
01:23:04	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Replying to "Make the call for BA..."

haha yeah, got you wrong. but we should do both to get on track asap
01:23:04	Jared Wasinger:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:23:08	Roman:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:23:09	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Replying to "Are we not waiting m..."

If we want to ship in April, we shouldnâ€™t wait that long
01:23:13	Trent:	Reacted to "Yeah I mean BPO" with ğŸ‘
01:23:14	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I mean a decision to..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:15	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:23:21	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with â•
01:23:23	Fredrik:	Replying to "Hard to reach out toâ€¦"
In 1TS discussions the importance of censorship resistance has been an important topic from quite a lot of institutions
01:23:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "ePBS+FOCIL+BAL is fi..." with â•
01:23:28	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Easy for you to say,..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:30	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Are we not waiting m..."

@Parithosh Jayanthi SFI - signalled for inclusion
01:23:33	Barnabas:	SFI BALs is a no brainer
01:23:36	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "haha yeah, got you..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:37	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Potuz agrees with me..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:41	Potuz:	Replying to "I know ePBS is light..."

lol
01:23:42	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "In 1TS discussions t..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:45	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I think we should ..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:48	Brian:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no braâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:23:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think on the CL side resource overlap is more critical. PeerDAS really seems like it will still take a lot of effort, so Iâ€™d be uncomfortable if people were to already start focusing on ePBS now
01:23:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no bra..." with â•
01:23:52	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no b..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:53	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no b..." with â•
01:23:54	Bastin:	Reacted to "Nethermind already i..." with ğŸ˜†
01:23:56	Francesco:	Replying to "Are we not waiting m..."

This might well be the right choice, but it is quite unlikely we will put a month of effort into it and then reverse the decision based on community input
01:23:56	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no bra..." with ğŸ‘
01:24:02	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "SFI BALs is a no bra..."

Then it will be a no brainer in 2 weeks ğŸ˜„
01:24:13	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "SFI BALs is a no b..."

Can we CFI it?
01:24:16	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	"Community input" (cough VCs input cough)
01:24:23	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Make the call for BA..." with â•
01:24:24	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "SFI BALs is a no b..."

Axxelerate
01:24:32	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to SFI BALs is a no bra... with "â•"
01:24:36	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no bra..." with ğŸ‘
01:24:46	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Are we not waiting m..."

I think signalling now but still doing a convincing effort at ironing it out with larger sets of people would be good. sets a good precedent vs already breaking the proposal that was made for glamsterdam
01:25:00	FLCL:	Replying to "Make the call for BA..."

what can go wrong if we have 1 ACDE per week btw? We have ACDT which looks like another ACDE
01:25:13	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Nethermind already i..." with ğŸ˜†
01:25:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no bra..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:20	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no bra..." with â•
01:25:23	Trent:	This is a strange blanket comment?
01:25:27	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "I think on the CL si..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:28	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Can we CFI it?" with â•
01:25:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	on EL side it seems much more straight forward with community opinion

on CL side, much more open:
shorter slots vs ePBS / delayed execution
ePBS vs other delayed execution
add FOCIL vs faster fork
01:25:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "SFI BALs is a no bra..."

shipit
01:25:45	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "on EL side it seem..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:47	Dustin:	Reacted to "I think on the CL ..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:47	nixo:	Reacted to "Then it will be a no..." with â•
01:25:48	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "on EL side it seems ..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:49	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "on EL side it seem..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:11	sean:	Replying to "I think on the CL ..."

It requires a lot of focus just to make an informed decision on ePBS
01:26:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Axxelerate" with ğŸ˜‚
01:26:35	Dustin:	Lion isn't primarily a "community" member
01:26:49	Charles C:	Replying to "Can we discuss 7903 ..." 

 How about for fusaka?
01:27:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	what decision are we even delaying on EL? seems like we already have pretty broad agreement?

Or is there someone who would want no scaling changes and only FOCIL?

Otherwise to me scaling is locked in, only EL question would be â€œwould we be okay with FOCIL added to the forkâ€?
01:27:27	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "what decision are we..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:30	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "what decision are we..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:43	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "what decision are we..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:17	stokes:	Replying to "what decision are we..."

Only new  info here would be a strong demand from the community for FOCIL vs something else
01:28:52	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:54	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:54	mpaulucci | ethrex:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:55	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:55	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "what decision are ..."

++ (FOCIL + Delayed Execution)
01:28:55	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png with "ğŸ˜‚"
01:29:00	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:00	felipe:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:01	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:03	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:05	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:05	spencer:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:19	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "terence has sent you..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:20	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:21	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png"

my bad
01:29:25	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:26	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:29	Peter:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:29:47	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "SFI BALs is a no b..."

But the blocks become 40% bigger, if you scale it 10x, it's a lot!
01:29:49	Justin Florentine (Besu):	idk, first i'm hearing of it
01:29:52	Justin Florentine (Besu):	link?
01:30:00	Barnabas:	Reacted to "idk, first i'm heari..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:30:01	Ben Adams:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7903
01:30:04	stokes:	Changing scope at all at this point injects uncertainty
01:30:05	Barnabas:	Replying to "idk, first i'm heari..."

not a good first sign
01:30:10	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Changing scope at ..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:12	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "SFI BALs is a no bra..." with â•
01:30:12	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Changing scope at al..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:12	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Changing scope at al..." with â•
01:30:16	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-07-17 at 8.14.57â€¯AM.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:30:32	spencer:	it feels against the process tbh - fusaka frozen etc
01:30:33	Barnabas:	this is something we could discuss for glamsterdam scope
01:30:38	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:30:41	felipe:	Reacted to "it feels against t..." with â•
01:30:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:30:43	Charles C:	Reacted to this is something we... with "ğŸ‘"
01:30:44	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:30:45	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Changing scope at ..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:46	stokes:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:46	milen | Erigon:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:30:47	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with â•
01:30:50	milen | Erigon:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:50	felipe:	Reacted to "this is something ..." with â•
01:30:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:30:51	felix (eest):	Reacted to "it feels against t..." with â•
01:30:51	milen | Erigon:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with â•
01:30:53	Barnabas:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:30:53	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with â•
01:30:56	felipe:	Reacted to "this is something ..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:01	Charles C:	Replying to "idk, first i'm heari..." 

 I discarded it in favor of proposing 7907
01:31:03	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:05	Trent:	Reacted to "Changing scope at al..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:07	Trent:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:31:07	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "this is something we..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:08	Dustin:	Reacted to "it feels against t..." with â•
01:31:13	Fredrik:	Reacted to "this is something weâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:31:17	Dustin:	Reacted to "this is something ..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:19	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Replying to "SFI BALs is a no bra..."

block (excl. blobs) though
01:31:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Changing scope at al..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "it feels against the..." with â•
01:31:29	Åukasz Rozmej:	how would that initcode work for 1Ggas block?
