WEBVTT

1
00:12:44.310 --> 00:12:46.150
Piper Merriam: Watching all the.

2
00:13:14.420 --> 00:13:15.230
stokes: Hello!

3
00:13:17.420 --> 00:13:19.610
stokes: Just checking. If someone has it.

4
00:13:21.900 --> 00:13:23.900
Justin Traglia: Yes, but you're a bit quiet.

5
00:13:25.620 --> 00:13:27.160
stokes: It's a bit hard to hear

6
00:13:31.930 --> 00:13:32.930
stokes: that's good to know.

7
00:13:35.020 --> 00:13:38.030
Josh Davis: No still struggling, so.

8
00:13:38.030 --> 00:13:39.200
stokes: Is it getting better?

9
00:13:40.030 --> 00:13:40.480
Josh Davis: Not really.

10
00:13:40.930 --> 00:13:41.760
Justin Traglia: No.

11
00:13:42.450 --> 00:13:43.130
stokes: I don't know.

12
00:13:44.770 --> 00:13:46.310
stokes: I'm thinking about it.

13
00:14:05.630 --> 00:14:06.410
stokes: Business buyer.

14
00:14:07.780 --> 00:14:11.319
Josh Davis: It's louder, but it's not a great audio signal.

15
00:14:13.310 --> 00:14:14.250
stokes: It's exciting.

16
00:14:16.760 --> 00:14:17.569
stokes: That's better.

17
00:14:17.570 --> 00:14:18.250
Justin Traglia: Yeah, that's.

18
00:14:18.250 --> 00:14:18.770
stokes: Yeah, yeah.

19
00:14:18.770 --> 00:14:20.380
Justin Traglia: Whatever you're doing right now, it's good.

20
00:14:23.430 --> 00:14:24.240
stokes: Yeah.

21
00:14:27.260 --> 00:14:32.949
stokes: I mean, I was trying to be into volume. But I don't know what's going on with my setup, anyway.

22
00:14:34.710 --> 00:14:37.339
stokes: Okay, that was fun.

23
00:14:38.900 --> 00:14:40.930
stokes: Let's see.

24
00:14:42.790 --> 00:14:45.399
stokes: Okay, I usually give it a few minutes.

25
00:14:45.700 --> 00:14:49.000
stokes: and we're pretty much a few minutes in now.

26
00:14:50.170 --> 00:14:53.859
stokes: So let me grab the agenda.

27
00:14:56.723 --> 00:15:01.010
stokes: Let's see, Josh, are you helping with the stream?

28
00:15:02.690 --> 00:15:03.889
Josh Davis: Yep, whenever you're ready.

29
00:15:03.890 --> 00:15:05.790
stokes: Okay, yep, let's do it.

30
00:15:07.980 --> 00:15:09.070
Josh Davis: Alright! You're live!

31
00:15:09.790 --> 00:15:11.480
stokes: Okay, everyone.

32
00:15:12.140 --> 00:15:21.890
stokes: This is Acdc, number 1, 56. It is issue 1490 in the ethereum. Pm Repo.

33
00:15:22.760 --> 00:15:25.260
stokes: I'll paste a link there in the chat.

34
00:15:25.800 --> 00:15:33.960
stokes: And yeah, today's call might be pretty short. I think the main topic on everyone's mind at the moment is Petra.

35
00:15:34.390 --> 00:15:43.599
stokes: So yeah, let's just go ahead and dive into Petra then. So the 1st thing we did have a mainnet shadow fork.

36
00:15:44.140 --> 00:15:53.450
stokes: Does anyone have any updates yet? I'm not sure that was, did you want to share your screen?

37
00:15:57.410 --> 00:16:01.730
stokes: Okay, anyway? Anyone have any updates on the main shadow Fork?

38
00:16:04.660 --> 00:16:08.300
stokes: Perry couldn't make it. But I did have an Async update.

39
00:16:09.670 --> 00:16:23.039
stokes: And he said, Yeah, the update is that the main shadow fork went mostly fine. There were some deposit problems on some clients, but it's due to the Shadow Fork config and can't happen on Mainnet.

40
00:16:23.894 --> 00:16:29.749
stokes: Also, another nice thing is that notices forked picture yesterday. It seems like everything went well there

41
00:16:31.690 --> 00:16:33.940
stokes: any? Oh, yeah. Barnabas.

42
00:16:34.120 --> 00:16:47.944
Barnabas: Yeah, so sorry. I tried to turn on my mic before. So basically, yeah, diminish. For when kind of as expected we use the same deposit contract address as we use for

43
00:16:48.670 --> 00:17:01.530
Barnabas: may not. And this is what caused all the issues. So in previous shadow forks. This has not happened because we were using custom deposit contract address. And that's why it didn't happen in previous shadow forks.

44
00:17:02.560 --> 00:17:03.330
Barnabas: So.

45
00:17:03.330 --> 00:17:03.890
stokes: Gotcha.

46
00:17:03.890 --> 00:17:11.014
Barnabas: Basically basically what what's wrong with the previous folks in, for example,

47
00:17:12.200 --> 00:17:28.980
Barnabas: in Holski is what made this one break. Basically. So the whole deposit queue had to be reprocessed and invited by every consensus layer client and the different different client.

48
00:17:29.380 --> 00:17:32.930
Barnabas: Different clients acted differently. Basically.

49
00:17:35.710 --> 00:17:36.440
stokes: Gotcha.

50
00:17:38.890 --> 00:17:39.650
stokes: Okay?

51
00:17:41.320 --> 00:17:48.339
stokes: Well, it sounds like, this is kind of a known issue, and we can still proceed as planned.

52
00:17:51.990 --> 00:17:54.620
stokes: So then, speaking of.

53
00:17:55.420 --> 00:18:09.179
stokes: I was just trying to get the announcement blog post. So yeah, I assume at this point, everyone has the right client version there. It's a bit late in the game if you don't. But yeah, I guess. Just please

54
00:18:09.580 --> 00:18:11.909
stokes: raise a hand if that needs to change.

55
00:18:12.699 --> 00:18:17.190
stokes: Otherwise, yeah. One final reminder or

56
00:18:18.180 --> 00:18:23.310
stokes: our instant response plan here. And I think at this point we have

57
00:18:24.500 --> 00:18:27.739
stokes: info for everyone, except maybe Grandina.

58
00:18:31.400 --> 00:18:35.100
stokes: So yes. Are you interested in joining this.

59
00:18:36.177 --> 00:18:37.950
stokes: Sorry I missed easier here.

60
00:18:38.100 --> 00:18:38.700
Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine: Yeah, yeah.

61
00:18:38.700 --> 00:18:47.030
stokes: Yeah, we were. We were just having point people per client. In the event, something goes wrong with the fork and say, there's an issue with quarantine.

62
00:18:47.950 --> 00:18:48.520
Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine: Oh, yeah. Yeah.

63
00:18:48.520 --> 00:18:49.380
stokes: Touch, with.

64
00:18:49.680 --> 00:18:54.270
Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine: Yeah, no problem. I'll I'll put the persons in the list.

65
00:18:54.780 --> 00:18:56.050
stokes: Okay. Great. Thank you.

66
00:18:56.050 --> 00:18:56.580
Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine: Sure.

67
00:18:58.564 --> 00:19:07.195
sean: So on lighthouse we released 7.0 point 1 yesterday, which? It helps in some cases with

68
00:19:08.320 --> 00:19:10.590
sean: state cash misses.

69
00:19:10.950 --> 00:19:19.890
sean: So it's I. I think we'd have a slight preference for using that on the release page. But it's not like hugely mandatory. It affects some users.

70
00:19:21.920 --> 00:19:29.400
stokes: Gotcha. Okay, that update should be pretty easy to make. So yeah, I'll make sure that happens.

71
00:19:33.010 --> 00:19:35.384
stokes: Okay, Terrence, would you like,

72
00:19:36.100 --> 00:19:40.040
stokes: is this 6 0 1 on top of 6 0.

73
00:19:40.280 --> 00:19:46.738
terence: Yeah. So we'll release 6.0 dot one today, which has 2 primary

74
00:19:47.270 --> 00:20:12.060
terence: but fixes that helps in terms of like reorg. So previously. If a beacon, node, reorg, or like across ep boundary, the duty changes, but then the valid client will not be able to adjust to this change. So we fix that in the latest release after thorough testing, and then we fix a a pillow attribute event streaming endpoint, issue over the weekend as well. This is to help

75
00:20:12.060 --> 00:20:27.429
terence: the re there, and the builder monitoring the event feed. So we face 2 bugs, and those will be on top of 6 0 dot one. It's not mandatory. It's a nice to have, but we just want to put this out there. People want to upgrade can upgrade, and those will be released today.

76
00:20:29.360 --> 00:20:30.420
stokes: Okay, great.

77
00:20:31.801 --> 00:20:36.949
stokes: Yeah. Sounds like we might want to hold off on changing the blog unless it's critical.

78
00:20:37.390 --> 00:20:41.940
stokes: Yeah. So either way, so one thing.

79
00:20:42.110 --> 00:20:49.519
Tim Beiko: One thing we can do on the blog that's pretty easy is just say, you know, version X or later, or something. So if

80
00:20:49.950 --> 00:21:00.007
Tim Beiko: the the lighthouse and prism one are that like, you're still fine with some people running the old release, I feel like that's probably the right language.

81
00:21:01.120 --> 00:21:05.875
Tim Beiko: otherwise, like, yeah, we can strike the old release. And and

82
00:21:07.200 --> 00:21:20.300
Tim Beiko: yeah, just move on. But those would be my 2 options. Either remove it to like X or later, or just strike the old one and add the new one. Just send me a DM. And I will get the change done. Yeah.

83
00:21:27.990 --> 00:21:28.660
stokes: Cool.

84
00:21:32.410 --> 00:21:37.200
stokes: And yeah, otherwise anything else for Petra

85
00:21:38.560 --> 00:21:42.160
stokes: the fork is next week in a few days.

86
00:21:43.240 --> 00:21:49.520
stokes: So yeah, exciting. This has been a big one, and

87
00:21:49.730 --> 00:21:54.579
stokes: I'm at least excited for it to happen. I think I hope most of you are as well.

88
00:21:56.571 --> 00:22:00.240
stokes: Yeah, anything else. Otherwise. Yeah.

89
00:22:00.770 --> 00:22:03.400
stokes: we'll move on to the next agenda items.

90
00:22:08.680 --> 00:22:09.490
stokes: Okay?

91
00:22:10.590 --> 00:22:17.190
stokes: So then, next we have Fusaka. Again, a little light today on the agenda here with Fusaka.

92
00:22:17.330 --> 00:22:27.099
stokes: there were some issues with pure dos. Devnet 6, which I think we had said we would plan to base Fussaka devnet 0 on

93
00:22:28.177 --> 00:22:37.960
stokes: that being said, yeah, 6 had some issues. And the decision was basically just to crap it. Move to 7 with those bug fixes.

94
00:22:38.670 --> 00:22:41.550
stokes: Any updates on that.

95
00:22:42.410 --> 00:22:47.579
stokes: I think people have been quite busy with Petra, so I think it's been a little slow on the period off side.

96
00:22:49.150 --> 00:23:06.622
Barnabas: I could give an update. We we are considering of delaying the possible launch of Devnet 7 till post spectra updates. So once more people could focus on. In the meantime, we have this inside lab, that net up and running.

97
00:23:07.880 --> 00:23:08.585
Barnabas: And

98
00:23:09.710 --> 00:23:32.699
Barnabas: yeah, ideally, we want clients to work on their fixes like their sync issues. Multiple client teams have indicated that they are currently working on fixing their sync, and they haven't even had time to look into validator custody so ideally from our side, we would prefer, if validator custody and syncing

99
00:23:32.880 --> 00:23:35.680
Barnabas: would be the base of Devon 7.

100
00:23:36.680 --> 00:23:42.779
Barnabas: So if any client teams would be ready to go with that. Then we could launch. But

101
00:23:43.040 --> 00:23:46.879
Barnabas: I feel like everyone is still work in progress for that.

102
00:23:48.250 --> 00:23:53.710
stokes: Yeah, yeah, I mean, that makes sense in terms of the feature set for Devnet 7.

103
00:23:56.300 --> 00:24:01.020
stokes: Anything we should discuss now for syncing issues? Or is it

104
00:24:01.160 --> 00:24:04.570
stokes: more specific to each client and just something they need to work through.

105
00:24:07.983 --> 00:24:26.139
sean: So lighthouse has a couple of issues. Jimmy mentioned that it might actually be useful for us to have Devnet 7 running for us to work through debugging. He mentioned. It's a bit easier to work with the F. Panda Ops devnets versus the Sunnyside Devnet. So

106
00:24:26.550 --> 00:24:28.539
sean: yeah, some feedback. There.

107
00:24:29.640 --> 00:24:33.719
Barnabas: I mean, we can most definitely launch one. I just wasn't sure if

108
00:24:33.970 --> 00:24:36.810
Barnabas: current teams are like working offline on

109
00:24:37.140 --> 00:24:44.450
Barnabas: figuring out these syncing issues with like you to assist, or if they're working on, if if it would be useful to have them definitely 7, then

110
00:24:44.960 --> 00:24:47.829
Barnabas: the Administration can have it up and running.

111
00:24:48.840 --> 00:24:52.490
sean: Yes, for for lighthouse, I would say Devnet 7 would be useful.

112
00:25:00.490 --> 00:25:10.140
stokes: And Terrence had a question, is there a demo? 7 spec. I believe I've seen a hack, indeed, but I don't know how up to date, it is with, say, the syncing and value or custody changes

113
00:25:11.360 --> 00:25:12.740
stokes: as part of the spec.

114
00:25:14.596 --> 00:25:28.173
Barnabas: Yeah. So we were considering that shouldn't be part of that 6. And the reason to that was that it's basically a change that wouldn't affect too many things, especially with super nodes around the network.

115
00:25:28.680 --> 00:25:36.440
Barnabas: But we also noticed that during the net 6 it might have caused all the issues, because, some

116
00:25:36.550 --> 00:25:44.459
Barnabas: clients were reporting that they had a specific subnet. But in the in actuality they didn't have it, or

117
00:25:44.580 --> 00:25:47.759
Barnabas: they had struggled serving specific subnets.

118
00:25:48.820 --> 00:26:03.689
Barnabas: So yeah, I'm not sure. Everyone seem to say that request is still weeks away. So if that is the case, then maybe we need to have a way to disable the data custody on lines that have it working. Or

119
00:26:03.940 --> 00:26:06.330
Barnabas: I'm I'm not really sure, like.

120
00:26:06.550 --> 00:26:10.379
Barnabas: I would only want to include validator custody in this, if

121
00:26:10.730 --> 00:26:17.880
Barnabas: we have like, confirmed that that specific client version is actually working and not like a port.

122
00:26:18.310 --> 00:26:21.060
Barnabas: the compass implementation.

123
00:26:22.370 --> 00:26:41.059
terence: One thing I want. Clarification when we have the spec is the whether to include the new data column site cost by route change. I think, before we just had it as like a single you in 64 column index. But now we change it to a list of index with maps

124
00:26:41.408 --> 00:26:53.271
terence: loves for sidecar 1, 28, or something like that. As the cap. So I think that changes things. We need some sort of like a a consensus on whether that should be

125
00:26:53.630 --> 00:27:03.080
terence: indefinite 7 or not. So I hope the spec will reflect that. But yeah, we don't have to discuss so much of it for this call. But yeah, I'm hoping to see that in the spec.

126
00:27:05.010 --> 00:27:11.039
stokes: How critical is that change? For, say, fixing the sink, or any other part.

127
00:27:11.310 --> 00:27:16.980
terence: It's not at all but it. But then say, but then say, if today, if one client implements it by other client

128
00:27:16.980 --> 00:27:18.769
terence: clear, then they cannot talk.

129
00:27:18.770 --> 00:27:19.230
stokes: Yeah.

130
00:27:19.230 --> 00:27:19.850
terence: Each other.

131
00:27:19.850 --> 00:27:21.439
stokes: Right? Yeah, okay.

132
00:27:22.913 --> 00:27:28.560
stokes: so yeah. So in short, there's not a dead net. 7. But that's something we can do

133
00:27:29.030 --> 00:27:30.010
stokes: very soon.

134
00:27:30.870 --> 00:27:34.169
stokes: And we can, yeah, be specific. About which of these things go in.

135
00:27:36.090 --> 00:27:40.939
Barnabas: Also do we expect to have a new consensus pack release coming soon?

136
00:27:42.630 --> 00:27:48.949
Justin Traglia: We'll do that the morning or the same day as may not upgrade to like. 2Â h after that happens.

137
00:27:49.820 --> 00:27:54.290
Barnabas: And would that also include the fix for the minimal spec stuff.

138
00:27:54.680 --> 00:27:56.919
Justin Traglia: Yeah, that's already been merged. So yeah.

139
00:27:58.890 --> 00:28:03.330
Barnabas: Have all these accounts. Had the time to take a look at that Pr.

140
00:28:03.440 --> 00:28:09.819
Barnabas: because it would be great to be able to start testing pure desk with minimal preset in local configs.

141
00:28:21.870 --> 00:28:24.260
stokes: Which pr, are you talking about? Exactly.

142
00:28:27.970 --> 00:28:28.480
nflaig: Oh, I was.

143
00:28:28.480 --> 00:28:30.269
stokes: Wasn't this request talking about.

144
00:28:30.732 --> 00:28:32.580
nflaig: Load! Stop! Here! Actually.

145
00:28:33.530 --> 00:28:36.779
stokes: Yeah, I was asking Barnabas which Pr. Or Justin?

146
00:28:37.290 --> 00:28:40.862
stokes: Was it the request for payload, or was it something.

147
00:28:41.220 --> 00:28:46.999
Barnabas: Or minimal spec fixing the minimal spec execution payload stuff.

148
00:28:47.000 --> 00:28:47.550
Justin Traglia: Have a good one.

149
00:28:47.550 --> 00:28:48.770
Barnabas: I will be second.

150
00:28:49.430 --> 00:28:51.220
stokes: Yeah, it's 4, 2, 9, 1.

151
00:28:53.260 --> 00:28:54.449
Justin Traglia: Yes, of it. Yeah, it is.

152
00:28:54.450 --> 00:28:56.100
stokes: Okay, gotcha. Okay?

153
00:28:56.933 --> 00:29:01.739
stokes: Cool. So yeah, this is the one they're talking about. And it sounds like.

154
00:29:02.810 --> 00:29:04.900
stokes: maybe not. Everyone's looked at this. Yet

155
00:29:07.040 --> 00:29:10.369
stokes: what was the issue here? Just for a summary for everyone here.

156
00:29:14.630 --> 00:29:16.670
Justin Traglia: Oh, okay, I can give a quick summary.

157
00:29:17.315 --> 00:29:19.870
Justin Traglia: Let me look at the Pr. Second.

158
00:29:23.080 --> 00:29:24.669
Justin Traglia: The so the

159
00:29:25.270 --> 00:29:31.960
Justin Traglia: in the consensus specs and the config. We had 3 like requests per payload configuration values, and

160
00:29:33.760 --> 00:29:43.902
Justin Traglia: these are different for the minimal configuration but the El didn't know about this per se, because the Yale doesn't have like a minimal config. So when we change this

161
00:29:44.430 --> 00:29:49.610
Justin Traglia: the Eo would still send more requests than the CEO wanted, you know which is great.

162
00:29:52.860 --> 00:29:56.469
stokes: Well, so is this a Petra thing or a fursaka thing?

163
00:29:56.760 --> 00:29:58.770
Justin Traglia: This is technically a Petra thing.

164
00:30:00.710 --> 00:30:01.310
stokes: Okay.

165
00:30:01.310 --> 00:30:03.180
Justin Traglia: Not. I mean, it's just minimal spec.

166
00:30:03.390 --> 00:30:04.620
stokes: Right, yeah.

167
00:30:07.750 --> 00:30:12.690
Barnabas: Yeah, we haven't done much minimal spec testing before.

168
00:30:13.310 --> 00:30:13.969
Barnabas: But yeah.

169
00:30:13.970 --> 00:30:15.150
stokes: Gotcha. Yeah, no. I thought.

170
00:30:15.150 --> 00:30:16.289
Barnabas: Nice to have.

171
00:30:16.290 --> 00:30:21.359
stokes: Yeah, yeah, I thought you were just saying, somehow, this is related to the peer dust on that. But I got you now.

172
00:30:22.770 --> 00:30:30.819
Barnabas: Would it be okay for client teams to wait for the this next consensus, back release and then target that for a period of time at 7.

173
00:30:35.930 --> 00:30:38.260
Justin Traglia: We want to do devnet 7 and minimal.

174
00:30:41.130 --> 00:30:45.279
Barnabas: We don't. We don't need to do that for minimum but

175
00:30:45.950 --> 00:30:50.679
Barnabas: yeah, I don't. I don't know if there's any any other changes that will hit. In the meantime.

176
00:30:51.510 --> 00:30:52.170
Justin Traglia: Okay.

177
00:30:59.870 --> 00:31:05.859
Justin Traglia: I would also like to get more eyes on the consensus backs. Blob schedule. Pr.

178
00:31:06.400 --> 00:31:08.320
Justin Traglia: I just post. I just shared a link.

179
00:31:08.590 --> 00:31:13.259
Justin Traglia: If more client teams could review this and give approval, I would like to merge it soon.

180
00:31:14.100 --> 00:31:14.950
Justin Traglia: Thank you.

181
00:31:23.530 --> 00:31:27.260
Barnabas: Oh, yeah. Would this be then part of the next release also?

182
00:31:29.543 --> 00:31:39.510
Justin Traglia: For Devnet 7, or it would if we merge it soon, it would be part of the next release. But I'm not sure if it should be part of Devnet 7 specs, because it might not be such a simple change.

183
00:31:41.180 --> 00:31:44.720
stokes: Yeah, I think it would make sense.

184
00:31:44.920 --> 00:31:49.950
stokes: I it depends. If we do, it doesn't. 8 or not. But given that, we kind of deprecated 6,

185
00:31:50.160 --> 00:31:53.409
stokes: I could see doing 7 with the 6 fixes.

186
00:31:53.610 --> 00:31:57.859
stokes: and then 8 with us, and then from there we go to Fussaka, Devnet 0.

187
00:32:02.230 --> 00:32:04.139
Justin Traglia: Yeah, that's kind of what I want as well.

188
00:32:05.230 --> 00:32:05.820
stokes: Okay.

189
00:32:07.050 --> 00:32:11.182
stokes: I also don't think people have the bandwidth to make that call today.

190
00:32:11.680 --> 00:32:14.280
stokes: but we will pick it up after picture.

191
00:32:27.270 --> 00:32:35.500
stokes: Let me check. Bernabus. Beta 5 is what we have right now, or that's yeah, have it? I mean.

192
00:32:35.830 --> 00:32:38.069
Barnabas: We have as of 3 weeks ago. I think

193
00:32:38.460 --> 00:32:42.759
Barnabas: so. Let me fix was targeting Beta 4.

194
00:32:49.160 --> 00:32:52.609
Justin Traglia: So yeah, beta 5 plus probably the

195
00:32:52.880 --> 00:33:00.700
Justin Traglia: that like the request, Pr, that Terrence was talking about the data column by root requests change.

196
00:33:09.010 --> 00:33:15.029
stokes: Okay, let's provisionally say that. And we can address this on the next Paradise breakout to dial it in

197
00:33:18.346 --> 00:33:20.920
stokes: Barnabas, I can. Oh, there we go. Thanks, Justin.

198
00:33:23.100 --> 00:33:23.860
stokes: Cool.

199
00:33:26.150 --> 00:33:27.080
stokes: So.

200
00:33:28.000 --> 00:33:41.919
stokes: assuming there's nothing else super timely for pure dos. Then that was the agenda. Today I'm fine to wrap up early. Everyone is very busy with Petra, and I think it makes sense to focus on that.

201
00:33:42.690 --> 00:33:44.200
stokes: Yeah, Ben.

202
00:33:44.670 --> 00:33:47.420
Ben Adams: Well, there are 2 other items on the agenda.

203
00:33:49.245 --> 00:33:49.980
Ben Adams: Yeah.

204
00:33:50.820 --> 00:33:51.490
stokes: Okay.

205
00:33:51.770 --> 00:33:53.660
Ben Adams: Busaka Cfi.

206
00:33:57.080 --> 00:34:00.780
Ben Adams: Oh, no, no, sorry I'm looking. I'm looking at the wrong agenda. Don't worry.

207
00:34:01.070 --> 00:34:02.010
stokes: Gotcha.

208
00:34:02.700 --> 00:34:03.590
stokes: Yeah.

209
00:34:04.310 --> 00:34:06.389
stokes: That was last call.

210
00:34:06.910 --> 00:34:07.570
Ben Adams: See ya.

211
00:34:07.868 --> 00:34:15.340
stokes: Yeah, I mean, that was all I have. Yeah, if there's anything else that we'd like to discuss, that is on topic, we can.

212
00:34:16.170 --> 00:34:23.800
stokes: We are not going to discuss Uf. Terrence. And otherwise we'll wrap up today.

213
00:34:23.920 --> 00:34:28.500
stokes: and people can focus on Petra Maina. Let's hope it goes smoothly.

214
00:34:32.060 --> 00:34:35.269
stokes: So anything else. Otherwise we'll go ahead and wrap up.

215
00:34:42.440 --> 00:34:46.090
stokes: Okay, happy factor everyone. I'll see you next time.

216
00:34:46.489 --> 00:34:47.179
sean: Bye.

217
00:34:47.179 --> 00:34:48.089
terence: Can't beat my future.

218
00:34:48.090 --> 00:34:49.040
Fredrik: Bye, thanks, bye.

219
00:34:49.040 --> 00:34:49.570
Justin Traglia: Bye, everyone.

220
00:34:49.570 --> 00:34:50.710
Ansgar Dietrichs: Bye. Thank you.

221
00:34:50.719 --> 00:34:51.289
Pooja Ranjan: You know.

