00:03:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	ominous
00:03:52	Barnabas:	Reacted to "ominous" with ğŸ˜‚
00:03:55	parithosh:	Reacted to "ominous" with ğŸ˜‚
00:04:25	lightclient:	gm
00:05:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1781
00:06:04	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_150132.jpg" with ğŸ˜¬
00:06:09	parithosh:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_150132.jpg" with ğŸ˜¬
00:08:41	parithosh:	Holesky as well actually
00:10:06	nixo:	technically the 1 month that was requested was between announcement and mainnet, not necessarily releases and mainnet
00:11:34	Marius van der Wijden:	No delay
00:11:39	Barnabas:	Reacted to "No delay" with ğŸ‘
00:11:41	stokes:	Yeah I donâ€™t see a reason
00:11:44	Trent:	Reacted to "No delay" with ğŸ‘
00:12:07	Matthew Keil:	agreed
00:12:09	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Teku is fine
00:12:13	Matthew Keil:	Full speed ahead
00:12:20	Dustin:	With Fusaka at this point, it's fine
00:12:26	Matthew Keil:	ğŸš„
00:12:35	Dustin:	There is a question of process in Glamsterdam
00:12:36	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i can't think of anything to do with any additional time
00:12:50	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "ğŸš„" with ğŸš¢
00:13:02	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/master/Fusaka/fusaka-mainnet-plan.md  this doc
00:13:19	stokes:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘
00:13:22	James He:	We are working on release not out yet
00:13:30	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘
00:13:49	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "With Fusaka at this ..." with ğŸ‘
00:14:02	stokes:	Hogota
00:14:08	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:14:09	Josh Davis:	Hekota
00:14:11	parithosh:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:14:12	Manu:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:14:13	Chris:	Out of interest - what would we do if we found a major issue with clients after BPO-2 on Hoodi? I think it's the first time we've had the delayed activation of features for a fork
00:14:17	Lean F | Lambda:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:14:17	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:14:24	stokes:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

We would assess
00:14:26	soispoke:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:14:34	stokes:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

We will never ship to mainnet if we expect an issue
00:15:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

I guess it could also depend, whether the bug would be BPO related or fusaka related
00:15:09	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..." 

 We have delayed forks in the past, pretty last minute
00:15:13	Barnabas:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

We could unschedule BPO 2 but still leave BPO 1 scheduled
00:15:23	Dustin:	18 of them are repricings though
00:15:29	lightclient:	Reacted to "18 of them are repri..." with ğŸ”¥
00:15:40	lightclient:	Itâ€™s that time again
00:15:51	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:52	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:54	Guru:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:54	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:55	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:55	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:56	Greg K |Lido:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:58	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:15:59	Jen:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:59	tamaghna choudhuri:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:00	Chris:	Replying to "Out of interest - ..."

I guess the question is more - would we have to request the community rollout new versions ASAP changing the fork date or BPO schedule?
00:16:12	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:14	Matthew Keil:	BTW, just for clarity I was talking about a process update for future forks. Not changing timeline
00:16:21	TomÃ¡s Arjovsky | Lambda | Ethrex:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:23	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:25	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "BTW, just for clarit..." with ğŸ’¯
00:16:29	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:34	Barnabas:	Replying to "BTW, just for clarit..."

can you make a pr with your suggestion?
00:16:39	Matthew Keil:	Replying to "BTW, just for clarit..."

sure
00:16:44	Mega | Lambda:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:48	potuz:	Reacted to "lightclient has sent..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:49	parithosh:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:04	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:19	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:47	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:53	stokes:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

Likely yes
00:17:54	James He:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:58	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:17:58	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Hogota" with ğŸ‘
00:18:00	Barnabas:	why canâ€™t we start DFI-ing today?
00:18:09	stokes:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

Weâ€™d have to get any problematic releases off mainnet
00:18:28	lightclient:	Reacted to "why canâ€™t we start D..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why canâ€™t we start D..."

just out of worry that will blow up the call
00:18:38	draganrakita:	Replying to "why canâ€™t we start D..."

Zoom needs the whip sound
00:18:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why canâ€™t we start D..."

maybe let me say it this way: if we get through all EIPs and still have time, we can talk about making first full decisions
00:18:53	Barnabas:	Replying to "why canâ€™t we start D..."

Iâ€™d like to start DFI-ing
00:18:56	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with â¤ï¸
00:19:00	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "Zoom needs the whip ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:17	lightclient:	Geth doc https://notes.ethereum.org/@fjl/geth-glamsterdam-eip-ranking
00:19:18	James He:	Reacted to "BTW, just for clarit..." with ğŸ’¯
00:19:25	lightclient:	Reacted to "Zoom needs the whip ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:20:38	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:20:59	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Zoom needs the whip ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:00	Åukasz Rozmej:	trustless log index could be scheduled for H or even I fork, it's huge and very fragile (easy to have bugs)
00:21:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Nethermind: https://x.com/URozmej/status/1986040895578296825
00:21:13	Marius van der Wijden:	For gas repricing, the majority of work is on the benchmarking and verification, ,not on implementation
00:21:14	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Zoom needs the whip ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Erigon: https://github.com/erigontech/erigon/wiki/Glamsterdam-PFI-stand
00:21:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "For gas repricing, t..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:53	Chris:	Replying to "Out of interest - ..."

Have we been in the position before where we've announced mainnet versions and then had to rollback? 
 
I guess we have about 3 weeks between hoodi BPO2 and mainnet fork so that should be enough time to reach out. Hopefully none of this is an issue of course
00:21:56	marek:	Reacted to "For gas repricing, t..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:58	spencer-tb:	Plus on prioritising headliners. BAL plus repricing is already a lot imo.
00:22:18	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Plus on prioritising... with "ğŸ‘"
00:22:23	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Plus on prioritising..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:28	marek:	Replying to "For gas repricing, t..."

yes, 100% agree with what Felix said, we need to evaluate EIPs and then decide
00:22:33	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "For gas repricing, t..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:59	Dustin:	the CALLDATA repricing is distinct IMO -- it affects block size
00:23:10	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "the CALLDATA reprici..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:17	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "Out of interest - wh..."

I think itâ€™s more likely that clients will have patch releases to further upgrade if we find anything post-BPO2, but delaying as a last resort. Would have to assess what the issue is
00:23:21	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "For gas repricing, t..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reth: https://hackmd.io/@jenpaff/S1bj9gqkbe
00:23:51	potuz:	Reacted to "Zoom needs the whip ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:23:53	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:24:04	tamaghna choudhuri:	trustless log index could be scheduled for H or even I fork, it's huge and very fragile (easy to have bugs)
The Eips idea is good but there are many open questions left and many problems
The main problems with the eip rn are 
Database how to persist
reorg handling for filter maps
Proof format still in progress
non-standard SSZ usage
6466 Log container usage and 7916 ProgressiveList
network sync protocol missing
00:25:00	Jen:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

@Barnabas adding GitHub handles is okay or you want full names in the list?
00:25:26	stokes:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

GitHub handles is fine
00:25:31	Jen:	Reacted to "GitHub handles is fi..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:34	stokes:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

Discord may be better
00:25:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

Yeah names generally ok, I think the client teams arenâ€™t so big that we wouldnâ€™t be able to know who you referencing ğŸ˜„
00:25:57	stokes:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

The idea is that these are point people in case thereâ€™s an issue and we need to hop in a war room etc
00:25:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Nimbus / Pureth: https://pureth.guide/glamsterdam/
00:26:32	Jen:	Reacted to "Discord may be bette..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Access list repricing also is on block size
00:28:09	Lean F | Lambda:	We didnâ€™t have the time to gather the info but FOCIL as S-tier is something we agreed on from ethrex
00:28:17	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Access list repricin... with "ğŸ‘"
00:28:22	kasey:	I think no post mentioned  EIP-7928: Block-Level Access Lists - not ready for inclusion?
00:28:39	Åukasz Rozmej:	I would consider waiting for zkVms to do benchmarking of opcodes
00:28:46	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I think no post ment..." 

 It's already SFI'd
00:28:52	kasey:	Replying to "I think no post ment..."

Oooh thanks!
00:28:54	Caleb:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:28:54	Åukasz Rozmej:	For repricing them
00:29:30	RaÃºl Kripalani:	One way or another, EIP-7870 defines combined bandwidth limits for both EL and CL. So anything that changes network dynamics is inherently cross-layer
00:29:35	Dustin:	Yeah agree, I'm a bit wary of the general repricing for that reason
00:30:07	Åukasz Rozmej:	FOCIL FTW!
00:30:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i will definitely be on ACDC advocating for FOCIL
00:30:28	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:31	Jihoon:	Reacted to "i will definitely beâ€¦" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:33	Jihoon:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:34	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:30:34	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:30:35	felix (eest):	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:35	Jen:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:36	felix (eest):	Reacted to "i will definitely ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:30:36	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:37	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:30:46	potuz:	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:31:23	Dustin:	Replying to "For repricing them"

zkVMs seem to change performance characteristics fairly meaningfully regularly
00:31:38	Dustin:	Replying to "For repricing them"

But sure
00:31:39	tamaghna choudhuri:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:32:23	Barnabas:	Replying to "i will definitely be..."

CL devs gotta stay focused on epbs ğŸ˜‚
00:32:42	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:32:44	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:32:44	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:32:47	stokes:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:02	parithosh:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:15	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:20	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:33:20	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "i will definitely be..."

and i will be the coke dealer keeping FOCIL from disappearing from the Glamsterdam conversation.

you're welcome.
00:33:23	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:33:28	Trent:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ‘
00:33:36	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:42	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:33:42	Marc:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:48	Marc:	Reacted to "i will definitely beâ€¦" with ğŸ”¥
00:33:52	Marc:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:33:52	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "and i will be the co..." with â¤ï¸
00:34:00	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:11	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:11	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:34:22	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "i will definitely ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:34:38	Dustin:	Yeah, that part of the core repricing seems worthwhile, e.g., anything which has come up in perfnet as a bottleneck
00:34:40	Marius van der Wijden:	One thing I wanted to mention is that the numbers in all eips, esp. 7904 are nor final and will change significantly between now and the fork. Cfi'Aing the repricing changes to get more resources available from the testing and security team. We will definitely prioritize the worst cases and making things more expensive before making things cheaper/harmonizing
00:34:52	marek:	Reacted to "One thing I wanted t..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "One thing I wanted t..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:56	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "For repricing them"

I don't expect proving will affect 7904 repricing
00:34:57	Trent:	There are dozens of EIPs that will soon disappear from the glamsterdam scope, not for lack of utility or importance, but for reasons of pragmatic scoping
00:35:02	parithosh:	Reacted to "One thing I wanted t..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:05	draganrakita:	Reacted to "One thing I wanted t..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:20	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "i will definitely be..."

and FOCIL shouldn't be one of them.
00:35:22	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:35:29	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "For repricing them"

Also we now like removing precompiles in H* instead of repricing for zk :)
00:35:58	Marius van der Wijden:	I like em all, but I'm biased
00:36:04	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "and FOCIL shouldn't ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:10	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "i will definitely be..." 

 Agreed. Even if glamsterdam is to be delayed by a month or 2. I would say it is worth it
00:36:29	nixo:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:36:31	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to i will definitely be... with "ğŸ”¥"
00:36:35	Chris:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s more..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:36	Mario Vega:	The bundling has made it difficult for the testing team to assess its testing complexity
00:36:51	Jihoon:	Reacted to "and FOCIL shouldn't â€¦" with ğŸ”¥
00:37:08	lightclient:	I wish this was just 1 EIP
00:37:14	lightclient:	EVM prices 2.0
00:37:40	draganrakita:	Replying to "EVM prices 2.0"

EVM v2 didnâ€™t go that well
00:37:50	Mario Vega:	Replying to "The bundling has mad..."

Talking about 7904
00:38:02	lightclient:	Replying to "EVM prices 2.0"

But Eth 2.0 went extremely well
00:38:09	Barnabas:	Replying to "EVM prices 2.0"

EOF was too small it should have included all the repricing EIPs too
00:38:12	draganrakita:	Hm, that is true
00:38:15	lightclient:	Reacted to "EOF was too small it..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:17	draganrakita:	Reacted to "EOF was too small it..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:18	Jen:	Reacted to "EOF was too small it..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:19	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to EOF was too small it... with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:38:21	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "EOF was too small it..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:25	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "But Eth 2.0 went ext..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:38:36	draganrakita:	Reacted to "But Eth 2.0 went ext..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:38:40	Carl Beekhuizen:	I put together a spreadsheet to help myself understand how all these core repricing EIPs interact. In case it is useful to someone else: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DZVM3UDK-KkfpWAWGbeIEgHuejpoyy0vkbqpT3WSU7I/edit?gid=0#gid=0
00:38:46	pk910:	Reacted to "EOF was too small it..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:49	raxhvl:	Reacted to I put together a spr... with "â¤ï¸"
00:38:53	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to I put together a spr... with "â¤ï¸"
00:38:53	Jihoon:	Reacted to "I put together a sprâ€¦" with â¤ï¸
00:38:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I put together a spr..." with â¤ï¸
00:39:13	Caleb:	Reacted to "But Eth 2.0 went e..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:39:33	Caleb:	Reacted to "I put together a s..." with â¤ï¸
00:40:05	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "I put together a spr..." with â¤ï¸
00:40:55	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Agreed. Even if glam..." with ğŸ’¯
00:41:10	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "EOF was too small it..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:17	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I put together a spr..." with â¤ï¸
00:41:19	Marius van der Wijden:	Design & test time are very similar imo for repricings
00:41:23	parithosh:	Reacted to "I put together a spr..." with â¤ï¸
00:41:43	parithosh:	^ yeah design is already using the same infra we would for testing mostly ğŸ˜„
00:41:46	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Design & test time a..."

it's not so much the time, its the need to iterate
00:42:14	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Design & test time a..."

Yeah, for now every gas number in a repricing EIP, it should be expected to change
00:42:37	Louis:	Not sure if testing here includes refactoring existing tests
00:42:49	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "Design & test time a..."

Itâ€™s the 4-6 distinct implementations that make the measurment part dfficult, we canâ€™t be sure until all implms are measured.
00:42:50	Anders Elowsson:	Related to what Justin F is saying, there is indeed the economic aspect of it, where we need to hypothesise around the price-elasticity of demand for the different opcodes, to know the equilibrium outcome. 

In essence: If you increase the price of state gas, how much state will users actually createâ€¦
00:43:02	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:43:14	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "One thing I wanted t..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:16	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_071028.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:43:21	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:43:27	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:43:35	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "and i will be the co..." with â¤ï¸
00:43:38	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Related to what Just..."

And if it causes gas price to fall; then the high state growth ends up costing same
00:43:54	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	No milli gas nor rebase  please ğŸ™
00:44:08	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Related to what Just..."

Yes there are plenty of aspects here
00:44:20	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Design & test time a..." 

 We have pretty good infrastructure for measuring now. Once we propose a new schedule and clients implement it, we can immediately test it and see results in hours
00:44:35	Maria Silva:	Replying to "Design & test time a..."

Also, we are benchmarking all clients independently and then taking the worse measurements
00:44:39	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "No milli gas nor reb..." 

 Just general repricing and gas limit bump
00:45:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I put together a spr... with "â¤ï¸"
00:46:24	Charles:	what is the interference with AA?
00:46:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	and again, after the call I will go and synthesize all of this feedback into CFI and DFI candidate lists
00:46:33	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "I put together a spr..." with â¤ï¸
00:47:05	Åukasz Rozmej:	Maybe it needs bigger limit?
00:47:06	Barnabas:	Fusaka blog post out: https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/11/06/fusaka-mainnet-announcement 

LFG! ğŸ¦“
00:47:16	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:20	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:26	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:33	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Screenshot2025_11_06_152903.jpg with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:47:33	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:45	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:52	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:56	CPerezz:	It helps scaling too. As XEN is no longer the bottleneck for state root computation
00:48:08	Åukasz Rozmej:	The transition there is complex
00:48:27	Maria Silva:	Adjustments are possible
00:48:40	Maria Silva:	And we still need to benchmark as well
00:48:47	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "And we still need to..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:50	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Adjustments are poss..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:58	CPerezz:	Replying to "The transition there..."

Far less than Verkle. And we had 7 devnets working and transitions done.
00:49:00	Guillaume:	Replying to "The transition there..."

much simpler than binary trees
00:49:40	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "The transition there..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:49:54	draganrakita:	I think we are not using the lists the clients make and compounding it into one doc with priorities
00:49:54	Marius van der Wijden:	Martin had a writeuo why we shouldn't do this
00:50:10	Carl Beekhuizen:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7686
00:50:13	Danno Ferrin:	The paging is the key value to any memory costing changes.
00:50:30	Mario Vega:	Replying to "The transition there..."

The fact that we have never done this on a testnet or mainnet is enough to not downplay it imo
00:50:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Martin had a writeuo..." 

 8057
00:51:08	Guillaume:	Replying to "The transition there..."

we did it on a testnet, holesky
00:51:29	Mario Vega:	Replying to "The transition there..."

what was the update? how did it go?
00:51:30	Guillaume:	Replying to "The transition there..."

back in 2023
00:52:09	Guillaume:	Replying to "The transition there..."

what update?
00:52:12	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Fusaka blog post out..." with ğŸ”¥
00:52:24	Mario Vega:	Replying to "The transition there..."

Holesky had a state account update?
00:52:49	Guillaume:	Replying to "The transition there..."

in a shadowfork, yes
00:52:53	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "in a shadowfork, yes" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:53:00	draganrakita:	Same here for EIP-8024
00:53:05	nixo:	note that 7686 should be in â€œRepricing - possible additionsâ€ - it was initially miscategorized
00:53:19	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "note that 7686 shoul..." with ğŸ«¡
00:53:44	soispoke:	Reacted to "FOCIL FTW!" with ğŸ”¥
00:53:51	soispoke:	Reacted to "i will definitely be..." with ğŸ”¥
00:54:06	Marius van der Wijden:	I kinda disagree with slotnum
00:54:06	soispoke:	Reacted to "and i will be the co..." with â¤ï¸
00:54:13	soispoke:	Reacted to "and FOCIL shouldn't ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:54:15	soispoke:	Reacted to "and FOCIL shouldn't ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:20	soispoke:	Reacted to "Agreed. Even if glam..." with ğŸ’¯
00:54:24	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..." 

 Not super easy, not super necessary
00:54:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I hope this format makes sense for people, I am sorry there is not enough time to have a proper discussion on each EIP. if we get through all EIPs, we can have a quick discussion about next steps at the end
00:54:31	Jen:	Reacted to "I hope this format m..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:39	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..."

Donâ€™t we need an engine api update for that or does the EL already have this info?
00:54:49	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..."

not super easy? isn't it just a new field on a message frame?
00:55:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..."

it's not super necessary, but it opens up some interesting app layer designs, @Marc  can elaborate
00:55:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..." 

 It should be, but its not local to the evm
00:55:33	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to it's not super neces... with "ğŸ‘"
00:55:33	lightclient:	8024 gud
00:55:34	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "it's not super neces..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:39	Jen:	Reacted to "8024 gud" with ğŸ‘
00:55:40	draganrakita:	Reacted to "8024 gud" with â•
00:55:44	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "8024 gud" with ğŸ‘
00:55:45	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "8024 gud" with â•
00:55:48	frangio:	Reacted to "8024 gud" with ğŸ‘
00:55:48	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to 8024 gud with "ğŸ‘"
00:55:50	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to 8024 gud with "â•"
00:55:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "8024 gud" with â•
00:56:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "note that 7686 shoul..."

right, the first 3 blocks were based on Mariaâ€™s recommendations, which did not yet include the EIP
00:56:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "note that 7686 shoul..."

but agree conceptually
00:56:21	Marc:	Replying to "I kinda disagree witâ€¦"
would need engine api change but I donâ€™t think super complex
00:56:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	@Felix (Geth) do you still have your hand up?
00:56:56	Jen:	Replying to "I hope this format m..."

Yeah this is really helpful
00:57:06	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "would need engine ap..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:57:20	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to I hope this format m... with "ğŸ‘"
00:57:31	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..."

Yes, itâ€™s something weâ€™ve done many times, should not be complex to test
00:58:05	Marc:	Replying to "I kinda disagree witâ€¦"
would be helpful for any apps depending on slot number to work reliably with future slot length changes
00:58:37	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I hope this format m..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:53	nixo:	a bit of context: 6404 is a dependency of 6466
00:59:03	wolovim:	Reacted to "I hope this format mâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:59:08	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..." 

 I am not hard against it, if you could motivate it with a list of potential use cases marc. I think it would convince me
00:59:11	potuz:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..."

Shouldn't that one be bundled with changes to the slot duration?
00:59:36	draganrakita:	RLP works, imo it is not worth the change
00:59:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "RLP works, imo it is..." with â•
00:59:45	potuz:	Replying to "I kinda disagree wit..."

although if contracts want to start deploying with that logic right now, they would be future proof
00:59:51	Marius van der Wijden:	Now not the time for ssz
00:59:56	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with â•
00:59:57	lightclient:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:59	marek:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with â•
01:00:00	marek:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:10	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I am not hard agains..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:17	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to it's not super neces... with "ğŸ‘"
01:00:25	potuz:	Replying to "RLP works, imo it is..."

It doesn't work for many many applications, from staking pools to rollup protocols
01:00:38	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:59	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with â•
01:01:01	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "RLP works, imo it is..." 

 I agree that at some point switching fully to ssz would be nice, just not a prio rn
01:01:08	Francesco:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:09	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to RLP works, imo it is... with "â•"
01:01:13	potuz:	Replying to "RLP works, imo it is..."

this will continue to be the case forever
01:01:14	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Now not the time for... with "ğŸ‘"
01:01:20	potuz:	Replying to "RLP works, imo it is..."

has been for over a few years now
01:01:24	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "this will continue t..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:26	parithosh:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:29	Marc:	Replying to "I kinda disagree witâ€¦"
say if an app wants to do something like allow something to happen every x epochs, they could do this much more cleanly
01:01:30	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Now not the time for..." with â•
01:01:32	Greg K |Lido:	Reacted to "It doesn't work fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:38	parithosh:	Reacted to "this will continue t..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:46	Marc:	Replying to "I kinda disagree witâ€¦"
I think should be shipped before slot length change to give time to migrate
01:01:50	Greg K |Lido:	7688 should be discussed in ACDC, right?
01:01:51	lightclient:	Reacted to "I think should be sh..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "RLP works, imo it is..."

agree, it's never been more important than competing features.
01:01:58	Dustin:	7688 is CL yes
01:02:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "The transition there..." 

 Yeah but Verkle was potential headliner
01:02:39	lightclient:	Did we talk about code merklization yet?
01:02:49	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "The transition there..." 

 I would be ok with doing this with migration of the tree
01:02:53	CPerezz:	Replying to "Did we talk about co..."

No one commented anything
01:02:58	CPerezz:	Replying to "Did we talk about co..."

But we passed it already
01:03:02	draganrakita:	EIP-7907 is good ux improvement
01:03:03	Maria Silva:	Replying to "Did we talk about co..."

It was in the repricing part
01:03:17	Jen:	Reacted to "It was in the repric..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:23	frangio:	Reacted to "EIP-7907 is good u..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:26	Danno Ferrin:	7903 is needede for 7907
01:03:31	potuz:	Replying to "RLP works, imo it is..."

Hard to gauge on aggregation, like on every single release, we have huge changes that could have been avoided on our side if we had forward compatible or stable containers, at each given fork they probably don't offset other EIPs, but we've now paid the price for at least 4 forks
01:03:32	Marc:	Replying to "I kinda disagree witâ€¦"
the motivation isnâ€™t really allowing apps to support some new functionality- they can already do the same stuff today just not in a future-proof way. itâ€™s just trying to give one less thing to worry about when changing slot length
01:03:52	Marc:	Reacted to "Now not the time forâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:04:02	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	We are for 7907 but with a lower size, like 64
01:04:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think should be sh..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:28	draganrakita:	Reacted to "7903 is needede for ..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:34	Marius van der Wijden:	I am for chunk based one over 7907
01:05:29	spencer-tb:	Is 7907 redundant if chunk based will happen in the future?
01:06:19	Charles:	the main issue that came up for eip 7907 before was the addition of the codesize index; have discussed offline and a good improvement would be to add the codesize directly to the account tuple (credit danno)
01:06:23	lightclient:	We were pretty supportive of 7997 fwiw
01:06:37	Charles:	Replying to "the main issue tha..."

i can update the eip if there is appetite for this eip
01:06:39	Guillaume:	Replying to "Is 7907 redundant if..."

yes
01:06:46	Dustin:	Reacted to "Hard to gauge on a..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:49	Dustin:	Reacted to "this will continue..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:52	Dustin:	Reacted to "It doesn't work fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:15	Ben Adams:	Replying to "We were pretty suppo..."

Is very low effort ğŸ™‚ And nice to have a standard
01:07:15	spencer-tb:	Replying to "Is 7907 redundant if..."

Then I donâ€™t think we should add 7907. Feels like wasted time.
01:07:32	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "The transition there..."

IMO we definitely need to bring in how clients load bytecode from DB into the protocol spec at some stage. Currently thereâ€™s no concept of it, as far protocol goes only contract hash exists and it complicates increasing contract limits. The question is whether to do it now or later.
01:08:07	draganrakita:	Reacted to "The fact that we hav..." with â•
01:08:14	spencer-tb:	Replying to "We were pretty suppo..."

Testing was medium complexity iirc
01:08:45	lightclient:	Reacted to "Testing was medium c..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:52	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "We were pretty suppo..." 

 We already have resources lines up for a proper audit of it
01:09:09	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "We were pretty suppo..." 

 (If chosen)
01:11:02	pk910:	Replying to "We were pretty suppo..."

we already have deterministic factory contracts via unprotected / nickmined TXs? A standard would be great,  but is it worth spendeing dev effort on it - we won't really have a benefit out of it as we preactically already have a non standard way to do the same?
01:11:15	Jen:	Replying to "Is 7907 redundant if..."

I disagree- if we can ship 7907 and achieve better devex in Glamsterdam, then we should do it
01:11:25	Sophia Gold:	strongly against adding new precompiles
01:11:27	Mario Vega:	add ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:11:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Testing was medium c..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:31	ignacio:	Reacted to "strongly against add..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:32	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "strongly against add..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:38	Danno Ferrin:	https://quantumdoomclock.com/
01:11:46	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to strongly against add... with "ğŸ‘"
01:11:48	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "strongly against add..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:48	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

Need to address PQ at some point
01:11:51	lightclient:	Reacted to "strongly against add..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:56	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "strongly against a..."

this is not the way  imo
01:12:00	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

If not now, next fork after Glamsterdam
01:12:13	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

EVM PQ is on the order od 2-15M
01:12:18	spencer-tb:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

Whatâ€™s PQ?
01:12:24	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

Post quantum
01:12:30	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Post quantum" with â¤ï¸
01:12:34	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

Post-quantum - EC crypto should be on a deprecation path
01:12:38	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

That question is fair and telling that no one is looking at this
01:12:38	lightclient:	Replying to "https://quantumdoomc..."

Clearly this isnâ€™t consensus otherwise it would be a much bigger issue
01:12:58	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "strongly against a..."

Danno what does 2-15M mean?
01:13:14	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "https://quantumdoomc..."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OkVYJx1iLNs
01:13:33	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "https://quantumdoomc..." with ğŸ‘€
01:13:36	frangio:	Replying to "strongly against a..."

probably gas cost to verify pq sigs on evm
01:13:40	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "https://quantumdoomc..."

Also, government mandates are setting a 2030/2035 deprecation/removal timeline
01:14:08	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "strongly against add..." 

 Might go down with repricings ;)
01:14:12	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://quantumdoomc..." with ğŸ‘€
01:14:23	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "probably gas cost ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:32	draganrakita:	Falcon512 is becoming NIST standard, but to early to add it rn, probably in future
01:14:36	Dustin:	Replying to "https://quantumdoo..."

that's quite a different claim than "Quantum computers will be able to steal all your keys by:
March 08, 2028 at 11:23 AM"
01:15:14	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Falcon512 is becomin..."

if it becomes the industry standard, then strong agree
01:15:26	draganrakita:	Reacted to "if it becomes the in..." with â•
01:15:28	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "https://quantumdoomc..."

Thatâ€™s the most aggressive credible claim.  This one is better

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OkVYJx1iLNs
01:15:41	Marius van der Wijden:	In 80% of the time ğŸ˜†
01:15:42	Dustin:	"is becoming a" is not "is a"
01:15:53	potuz:	@Danno FerrinÂ advances in Lean + PQ are really picking up quickly now, it feels like just a few months to coordinate with them what will be the native Ethereum PQ approach would be worth it in this case.
01:16:19	lightclient:	The EIP doesnâ€™t require a hard fork, but the core devs do ;)
01:16:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	as Justin is saying, I believe some of these do not require a hard fork change
01:16:29	Felix (Geth):	Reacted to "The EIP doesnâ€™t r..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:31	draganrakita:	EIP-7708 is nice ux
01:16:37	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "EIP-7708 is nice ux" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:16:40	lightclient:	Reacted to "EIP-7708 is nice ux" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:17:03	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "Falcon512 is becomin..."

Falcon will be FN-DSA, FIPS-206 as the standard.  But ML-DSA / FIPS-204 is out and finalized and is the current PQ DSA for FIPS compliant apps.
01:17:03	Mario Vega:	Replying to "EIP-7708 is nice ux"

testing effort was low, only concern was we need to test system contracts that rely on eth transfers
01:17:08	Justin Florentine (Besu):	what coordination is needed for 7949 or 7872?
01:17:37	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "The EIP doesnâ€™t requ..."

is this re: motivation?
01:17:38	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "EIP-7708 is nice ux" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:17:47	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "The EIP doesnâ€™t requ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:17:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "EIP-7708 is nice ux" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:18:02	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "what coordination is..." 

 7872 doesnt need any coordination
01:18:06	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "7872 doesnt need any..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:20	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "@Danno FerrinÂ advanc..."

The pq-interop has been 100% focused on the consesus algorithm.  Itâ€™s the wrong set of people to set EL standards.  Perhaps we should start up another working group for EOA, blob, and P2P concerns.
01:18:26	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "what coordination is..." 

 But it is important to protect local building and the resiliance and liveness of the network
01:18:29	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Replying to "EIP-7708 is nice ux"

can confirm from l2beat side that 7708 is nice to have!
01:18:33	Dustin:	Reacted to "But it is importan..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:36	Dustin:	Reacted to "7872 doesnt need a..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:48	draganrakita:	Reacted to "can confirm from l2b..." with â¤ï¸
01:18:48	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "what coordination is..." 

 Especially given the aggressive BPOs we have in the schedule
01:18:48	pk910:	Replying to "what coordination is..."

7949 is probably mostly coordination between pandaops & client teams as we use the geneis files for all our devnets
01:18:59	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "7949 is probably mos..." with â•
01:19:03	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "strongly against a..."

What about in riscv? :)
01:19:07	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "@Danno FerrinÂ advanc..."

For a new consensus protocol, the existing PQ-interop is all the right people needed, itâ€™s a question of focus.
01:19:14	lightclient:	Reacted to "can confirm from l2b..." with â¤ï¸
01:19:15	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "can confirm from l2b..." with â¤ï¸
01:19:22	Dustin:	Replying to "what coordination ..."

Yeah, without 7872, local nodes have to have approximately some of the resources of a supernode
01:19:24	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "strongly against a..."

There are risc-v simd extensions
01:19:27	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "what coordination is..." 

 I dont think it has anything to do with genesis
01:19:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Can't comment on something that is not ready
01:19:31	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "what coordination is..." 

 Its more like a config
01:19:40	Marius van der Wijden:	I would put 7668 and 7745 in the same fork
01:19:48	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "what coordination is..." 

 Could be wrong
01:20:10	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I would put 7668 and..." with ğŸ‘€
01:20:23	spencer-tb:	Replying to "what coordination is..."

STEEL could help with 7949 here too I think. But defo low prio.
01:20:25	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "what coordination is..."

correct, max blobs configured outside of genesis
01:20:31	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

A risc-v â€œcanonicalâ€ version of a precompile is a good path.
01:20:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	+1 for not including non consensus changes. We are fine to implement them.
01:20:59	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "A risc-v â€œcanonic..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:27	Marius van der Wijden:	I am also strongly against 7793 for glamsterdam
01:21:39	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I am also strongly a..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:04	Marc:	Replying to "I am also strongly aâ€¦"
why is that?
01:22:12	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

The price wonâ€™t go down 1000x with re-pricings. What is needed is either cheap small math ops (16 bit) or vector operations.

Also, I havenâ€™t seen zkEVMs running the RV vector ops yet. Is ther eone I should be looking at?
01:22:25	potuz:	Is Etan here?
01:22:40	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:40	Dustin:	Replying to "Is Etan here?"

He's not no
01:22:42	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:42	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:44	marek:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:44	parithosh:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:44	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:45	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:47	tamaghna choudhuri:	Replying to "Is Etan here?"

Sadly no : (
01:22:50	Marc:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:53	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:22:54	potuz:	Replying to "Is Etan here?"

oh wasted a couple of minutes on that image :(
01:22:55	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png with "ğŸ˜‚"
01:22:59	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "strongly against a..."

None do. And we like to keep the ISAs minimal. I'll see if we can evaluate relative costs for this
01:23:03	Dustin:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:07	Danno Ferrin:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with â¤ï¸
01:23:10	tamaghna choudhuri:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png" with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:28	Francesco:	Replying to "+1 for not including..."

We still need a way to coordinate on everyone implementing them though. E.g. for sparse blobpool, we do kind of need all clients to do it in a timely way, if we think itâ€™s important, otherwise we canâ€™t get any benefits from it (unless weâ€™re ok with just saying that if you run a client that hasnâ€™t implemented it youâ€™ll need more bandwidth)
01:23:36	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:39	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "We still need a way ..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:42	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "We still need a way ..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:49	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:56	Francesco:	Replying to "+1 for not including..."

Doesnâ€™t have to be included in the fork, but we probably do need ACD to decide on it?
01:24:17	draganrakita:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

zkEVM will need to support some kind of quantum sigs, so having precompile for it makes sense
01:24:26	potuz:	Agree with Justin
01:24:36	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I am also strongly a..." 

 Puts a big strain on block building, really big change (new tx type, new opcode) for little gain
01:25:38	pk910:	Replying to "I am also strongly a..."

seems like we missed GAS2ETH in the eip discussuions?
I'm curious what other devs think.  I'm against it. I don't think we should abuse gas for tips
01:25:51	Marc:	Replying to "I am also strongly aâ€¦"
I donâ€™t see it being a big issue, the tx index is specified up front so you can put these txs at top of block before building the rest
01:26:24	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "+1 for not including..." 

 Also there's an argument to be made that teams will need to reserve work slots for these eips
01:26:25	Marc:	Replying to "I am also strongly aâ€¦"
in terms of little gain, I think itâ€™s a big improvement if you care about encrypted mempools
01:26:34	Francesco:	Reacted to "Also there's an argu..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:53	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

@danno I donâ€™t think there is a benefit to supporting the vector extension, since the virtual CPU that the zkVMs prove is not that sophisticated
01:27:05	Francesco:	Replying to "+1 for not including..."

Yeah if we donâ€™t take it into account in these discussions, itâ€™s clear that itâ€™s  going to be less likely to be implemented because everything else will take precedence
01:27:12	Åukasz Rozmej:	Ship FOCIL.
01:27:17	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "We still need a way ..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:19	soispoke:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â¤ï¸
01:27:23	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:27:23	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â¤ï¸
01:27:23	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â¤ï¸
01:27:24	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:27:25	soispoke:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:27:25	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:27:25	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:27:25	soispoke:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â•
01:27:25	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â¤ï¸
01:27:26	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â•
01:27:27	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Ship FOCIL. with "ğŸš¢"
01:27:27	lightclient:	Idk FOCIL failed to get accepted as a headliner, idk why it is even CFI
01:27:29	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â¤ï¸
01:27:29	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â•
01:27:30	Francesco:	Replying to "+1 for not including..."

(More true for sparse blobpool, the max blob flag is a very small feature of course)
01:27:31	Jen:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â•
01:27:34	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..." with â•
01:27:37	Åukasz Rozmej:	Potuz is underestimating EL devs
01:27:40	Marc:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:27:41	lightclient:	Reacted to "Potuz is underestima..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:27:43	Francesco:	Reacted to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..." with â•
01:27:48	Trent:	Reacted to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..." with â•
01:27:48	potuz:	why is that?
01:27:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to Screenshot 2025-11-06 at 121900.png with "ğŸ˜‚"
01:27:54	Carl Beekhuizen:	Wait, isnâ€™t it the opposite? If we ship FOCIL, weâ€™ll have a lot more time for things on the EL side
01:27:55	potuz:	that you guys can do all of them :)
01:27:57	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "(More true for spars..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:00	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "Yeah if we donâ€™t tak..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:06	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Wait, isnâ€™t it the o... with "â•"
01:28:07	tamaghna choudhuri:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with ğŸš¢
01:28:11	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "Ship FOCIL." with â¤ï¸
01:28:12	soispoke:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..."

Because the process was actually flawed to begin with, and the difference between a headliner and not a headliner has never been very clear
01:28:14	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to Wait, isnâ€™t it the o... with "â•"
01:28:17	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Wait, isnâ€™t it the o..." with â•
01:28:20	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Wait, isnâ€™t it the o..." with â•
01:28:22	soispoke:	Reacted to "Wait, isnâ€™t it the o..." with â•
01:28:22	potuz:	Replying to "Wait, isnâ€™t it the o..."

True, good point, it will affect timings on the CL more
01:28:23	lightclient:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..."

What was not clear?
01:28:28	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to Ship FOCIL. with "ğŸš¢"
01:28:29	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to Ship FOCIL. with "â¤ï¸"
01:28:30	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "True, good point, it..." with ğŸ«¡
01:28:31	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "+1 for not including..." 

 (But I really think, we should not start creating eips for cli flags, esp not with 7 co authors)
01:28:37	potuz:	Replying to "Wait, isnâ€™t it the o..."

But I do feel the whole group should be involved
01:28:38	lightclient:	Reacted to "(But I really think,..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:40	soispoke:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..."

What makes an EIP a headliner?
01:28:49	Dustin:	people like FOCIL enough
01:29:06	lightclient:	Can we move 8024 to CFI since every client wants it?
01:29:07	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "strongly against add..."

No vector is fine, itâ€™s doing 14 bit math on 256 bit registers that is the real issue for an efficient EVM solution.
01:29:18	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Can we move 8024 to ..." with â•
01:29:22	soispoke:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..."

Just the fact that it was posted on ethmagicians at a different time? Or the complexity? Or the strict CL/EL separation?
01:29:23	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "No vector is fine,..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:25	lightclient:	Replying to "Can we move 8024 to ..."

Instead of debating process
01:29:28	Trent:	Are we repeating the mistake of pectra overcommitment
01:29:38	lightclient:	Replying to "Are we repeating the..."

No we are stronger
01:29:46	Francesco:	Reacted to "No we are stronger" with ğŸ’ª
01:29:51	potuz:	Reacted to "No we are stronger" with ğŸ’ª
01:29:51	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Can we move 8024 to ..." with â•
01:29:53	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "No we are stronger" with ğŸ’ª
01:29:53	Jen:	Reacted to "No we are stronger" with ğŸ”¥
01:30:00	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Can we move 8024 to ..." with â•
01:30:01	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..." 

 If it is delayed, do we delay the fork or remove the feature
01:30:12	Trent:	I think this is a false choice - at that point, the damage to timeline is done
01:30:16	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Just as a reminder, focil doesn't only add censorship resistance. It also allows optimistic rollups to reduce their challenge window thus finalizing faster
01:30:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "No we are stronger" with ğŸ’ª
01:30:22	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..." 

 Was the original intention of headliner iirc
01:30:29	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Just as a reminder, ..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:29	Barnabas:	should next weekâ€™s acd be another acde?
01:30:35	lightclient:	Reacted to "should next weekâ€™s a..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:30:37	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "should next weekâ€™s a..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:30:46	lightclient:	I think we usually cancel acd during devcon
01:30:51	soispoke:	Reacted to "Just as a reminder, ..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:58	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Just as a reminder..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:03	Francesco:	Replying to "Just as a reminder, ..."

Has any L2 confirmed that thatâ€™s enough for them to do it?
01:31:03	Danno Ferrin:	Replying to "should next weekâ€™s a..."

Every acdc should be an acde if it keeps ending early.  consensus issues first priority.
01:31:14	soispoke:	Replying to "Just as a reminder, ..."

https://notes.ethereum.org/@rudolf/interop-16
01:31:20	spencer-tb:	Can we start DFIâ€™ing next week?
01:31:21	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:34	soispoke:	Replying to "Just as a reminder, ..."

There was a dedicated interop call on this
01:31:35	Csaba:	I also think CLI flags should not be made a requirement through EIP process. What if a client doesnâ€™t even have a command line interface to start with? Not that we have such a client, but it really feels strange to standardise at this level.
01:31:43	lightclient:	8024 CFI
01:31:46	lightclient:	2day
01:31:47	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Was the original int..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:48	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "2day" with â•
01:31:48	lightclient:	Do it
01:31:58	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Can we move 8024 to ..." with â•
01:32:04	draganrakita:	Reacted to "No we are stronger" with ğŸ’ª
01:32:11	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "should next weekâ€™s a..." with ğŸ‘€
01:32:18	Marius van der Wijden:	Lightclient trying to dos the process afain
01:32:18	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_082854.jpg" with ğŸ˜†
01:32:19	Guru:	https://steel.ethereum.foundation/blog/blog_posts/2025-11-04_weld_final/
01:32:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	can you put the blog link in chat?
01:32:21	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "2day" with â•
01:32:23	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_11_06_082854.jpg" with ğŸ˜†
01:32:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "can you put the blog..."

ah, perfect
01:32:36	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Lightclient trying t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:10	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Just as a reminder, ..."

Itâ€™s very likely an improvement for withdrawals (and Iâ€™m a big fan of it for interop reasons) but not worth blowing up the fork scope imo
01:33:11	lightclient:	Replying to "Lightclient trying t..."

I am just using my favorite process
01:33:16	Csaba:	Replying to "+1 for not including..."

As for networking EIPs, we explicitly said that these donâ€™t have to be (but can be) on this list, but it is also important to have a space to discuss them, otherwise we risk not being able to  scale.
01:33:17	Marius van der Wijden:	Oh where will the tests be published?
01:33:20	parithosh:	Reacted to "Lightclient trying t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:23	spencer-tb:	Replying to "Oh where will the te..."

EEST
01:33:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Oh where will the te..." 

 Nice
01:33:35	soispoke:	Replying to "Idk FOCIL failed to ..."

Itâ€™s still not clear to me why an EIP that is not SFIâ€™d as a headliner wouldnâ€™t be able to be presented as a non headliner
01:33:37	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "The EIP doesnâ€™t requ..." 

 We already said we will implement it you don't have to remind us every 6 months ğŸ˜‰
01:33:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	STEEL PFI complexity assessment doc: https://github.com/ethsteel/pm/issues/7
01:33:50	Francesco:	Replying to "Just as a reminder, ..."

I am quite skeptical about this, for one thing (like potuz mentions) it is not resilient to 51% attacks, which is not the security model of L2s. Also reducing challenge windows isnâ€™t just about censorship (itâ€™s not even clear that itâ€™s the most important thing)
01:33:54	Guru:	Replying to "Oh where will the te..."

Test release remains the same as before
01:34:09	Justin Traglia:	Bye all!
01:34:09	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Replying to "Just as a reminder, ..."

go look at notes / recording of the call!
