00:07:39	read.ai meeting notes:	Lisandro and Teck Yuan added read.ai meeting notes to the meeting.

Read provides AI generated meeting summaries to make meetings more effective and efficient. View our Privacy Policy at https://www.read.ai/pp

Type "read stop" to disable, or "opt out" to delete meeting data.
00:07:44	Supernormal AI Notetaker:	Hi there ğŸ‘‹ I was invited by ğ—ğ˜‚ğ—±ğ—² to transcribe and take notes for this meeting. Learn more: https://supernorm.al/zoom

Type /ğ—µğ—²ğ—¹ğ—½ at any time to see what else I can do.
00:08:03	Blockscout assistant:	To start the notetaking and recording, the meeting host needs to be present and approve the recording pop-up message.
00:08:27	Blockscout assistant:	Recording permission was denied, leaving the meeting.
00:14:16	Joshua Rudolf:	Agenda for today: 
https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1608 

Kohaku experimental wallet repo: 
https://github.com/ethereum/wallet-poc
00:14:49	frangio:	what standards are needed?
00:15:00	Skele | Wonderland:	perfect :)
00:15:04	Gori | Wonderland:	â™¥ï¸
00:15:36	Joshua Rudolf:	@cyp @ status.network did you want to share anything on some of the stuff youâ€™re up to :)
00:17:40	Nikola Mandic:	Could you guys share links to the solutions mentioned as a stealth address protocols/wallets?
00:18:43	Skele | Wonderland:	https://defi-wonderland.notion.site/Overview-Deterministic-Secret-Generation-from-a-Signature-2269a4c092c780d7b171eed265fd8fca
00:24:03	Nikola Mandic:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonderl..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:26	Marissa Posner:	Here is a link to Polymerâ€™s implementation for anyone curious: https://github.com/polymerdao/prover-contracts/tree/main/contracts/core/native_fallback
00:32:34	Sam:	Reacted to "Here is a link to Po..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:35	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "Here is a link to Po..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:36	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Reacted to "Here is a link to Po..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:37	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Here is a link to Po..." with ğŸ˜
00:32:40	Matthew mteam:	Reacted to "Here is a link to Po..." with ğŸ˜
00:34:22	Sam:	Is it worth pushing so hard for native interop? I think L1 will never be fast enough to have an interop latency that provides a UX that feels instant. On top of the L1 latency, we also have latency impacts through the asynchronous nature of L2 settlement.
00:34:34	Marissa Posner:	Here is the link to the onchain config telegram group: https://t.me/+W7rwnHS3qKA0MDEx
00:34:47	Joxes | Wonderland:	I would love to read more about the approach (3)
00:35:09	Marissa Posner:	Reacted to "I would love to read..." with â•
00:35:17	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "I would love to read..." with â•
00:36:24	Joxes | Wonderland:	Replying to "Is it worth pushing ..."

with fast blocks and SSF I think it is worth to explore.
00:36:39	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Ill put something together and share it in the chat!
00:36:43	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "Ill put something to..." with â¤ï¸
00:36:45	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "Ill put something to..." with ğŸ‘€
00:36:47	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "I would love to read..." with â•
00:36:47	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Reacted to "Here is the link to ..." with â¤ï¸
00:38:24	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "Is it worth pushing ..."

i actually believe that native interop is probably the most secure and probably the best direction to go for all crosschain interop
00:38:37	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "i actually believe t..." with ğŸ’¯
00:38:41	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Here is the link to ..." with â¤ï¸
00:38:43	cyp | status.network:	Reacted to "i actually believe t..." with ğŸ’¯
00:38:48	Sam:	@Joxes | Wonderland Agreed.. but I think it will mainly be used as a backbone or fallback solution for way faster solutions.
00:38:57	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "i actually believe t..." with ğŸ¤
00:39:28	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	friction==delay?
00:39:29	Sam:	@Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind I mean, I definitely donâ€™t say no to it if it allows an â€instantâ€œ UX ğŸ˜„

But dont see this as practically doable
00:39:44	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "@Joxes | Wonderland ..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:53	Nam:	Just noodling a bit on the "slow native Interop" comment, I wonder how much of this comes back to cross-chain messaging (ala 7786 and the likes). If we all agree that this slow settlement practically need to be paired with a fast path in most use cases, does that become the same problem?
00:41:47	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Reacted to "i actually believe t..." with ğŸ’¯
00:41:55	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Reacted to "with fast blocks and..." with ğŸ’¯
00:41:59	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Reacted to "@Joxes | Wonderland ..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:02	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	to me, you focus on fixing the problem of interopability first then you try to make it faster
00:43:41	Joshua Rudolf:	Replying to "Just noodling a bit ..."

Hmm what do ya mean by â€œbecome the same problemâ€
00:44:07	Sam:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

fair ğŸ¤”
00:44:19	Allan | Offchain Labs:	Reacted to "Hmm what do ya mean ..." with â˜ï¸
00:44:28	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "Hmm what do ya mean ..." with â˜ï¸
00:47:17	CJ Cobb:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

What does this mean exactly?
00:48:37	CJ Cobb:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

â€œFixing the problem of interoperabilityâ€ , I feel like latency is one of the biggest problems in interoperability
00:49:17	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	for me, this means the following:
solve interop between the rollup and the base layer
use base layer as a settlement layer to implement cross rollup interop.
improve speed of cross rollup interop by introducing preconfirmations to interop messages (here i dont mean the preconfirmations for l2 or L1 transaction)
00:50:31	Kalman Lajko:	Reacted to "to me, you focus on ..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:49	Kalman Lajko:	Reacted to "for me, this means t..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:27	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

What kind of preconfirmations do you mean then? Where are these interop messages posted if not on the L1 or L2s?
00:52:50	Sam:	An agreed structure as LXLY from Polygon would be needed for standardized efficient data syncs over all stacks. 

Thatâ€™s what AggLayer is using today, and any kind of settlement process/verifier can be added. 
â€¦ and the AggLayer sequencer itself provides pre-confs to tackle the latency issue.
00:53:00	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

it could potentially be an AVS that provide some crypto economic commitment to a message or a call being passed from an L2 to another without waiting for L1 settlement of these chains
00:54:41	Matthew mteam:	https://x.com/mteamisloading/status/1942588359655792976
00:55:07	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

@Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind right but I guess your point 2 seemed to imply that you wouldnâ€™t consider this a â€œsolved solutionâ€ for interop. but I see the point about having escalating confirmations
00:55:56	Nam:	Replying to "Just noodling a bi..."

If I as a developer want to use this settlement mechanism but some other fast path, am I "practically forced" to figure out this fast path myself. If so, doesn't every developer, when they simply want to send value or instructions (like for keystore rollups), then effectively come up with their own messaging standard unless we standardize 7786?
00:57:07	Sam:	Replying to "to me, you focus on ..."

Also when we have such systems in place, if enshrined or not, it will be super hard to reach acceptable latency numbers.
00:57:11	Matthew mteam:	https://docs.spire.dev/education-hub/what-is-a-based-rollup
00:57:15	Joshua Rudolf:	Replying to "Just noodling a bit ..."

Gotcha, meaning the fast path is fragmented, even if slow path is unified and standardized
00:59:27	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	isn't that similar to Gwyneth has been pushing though :O
01:00:00	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	But now weâ€™ll have per-tx gas limits so itâ€™ll breakâ€¦
01:00:01	Allan | Offchain Labs:	Replying to "Just noodling a bit ..."

I would expect â€œfast pathâ€ providers to bake in a standardized â€œslow pathâ€ as a sort of fallback mechanism within their protocol. Across Prime is exploring that model as I understand it, and weâ€™ve discussed something similar with the Polymer team also
01:00:30	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "I would expect â€œfast..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:09	Brecht's Notetaker (Otter.ai):	Takeaways from the meeting ğŸ‘‰ğŸ’¬ 

[ ] Marissa to share the link to the ongoing discussion around the ERC-7785 on-chain config work, which could potentially be extended to include the Interop registry contract. (Marissa)
[ ] Follow up on the feasibility and potential next steps for standardizing the Interop registry contract, potentially as an addition or amendment to the existing ERC-7785 work. (Ian)

See full summary - https://otter.ai/u/09khB4U7bH3wDoUTpWS1qD9GvDE?utm_source=va_chat&utm_content=wrapup_v4&tab=chat&message=b606b9b0-f3b8-442c-ace5-2a90e80a2b40
01:02:15	Ian | Polymer Labs:	Reacted to "I would expect â€œfast..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:24	Nam:	Reacted to "Gotcha, meaning th..." with â•
