00:16:05	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:16:09	stokes:	gm
00:16:15	Caleb:	Gm
00:18:39	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1638
00:21:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/892088344438255616/1402246314187690217
00:24:11	nixo:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@jtraglia/fusaka_scheduling
00:28:02	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	I would not push the blobs higher before we have slot restructuring
00:28:14	Barnabas:	Devnet 4: 
BPO_1_MAX_BLOBS=14
BPO_1_TARGET_BLOBS=9
BPO_2_MAX_BLOBS=21
BPO_2_TARGET_BLOBS=14
BPO_3_MAX_BLOBS=32
BPO_3_TARGET_BLOBS=21
BPO_4_MAX_BLOBS=48
BPO_4_TARGET_BLOBS=32
BPO_5_MAX_BLOBS=72
BPO_5_TARGET_BLOBS=48
00:28:23	Francesco:	Replying to "I would not push the..."

Higher than?
00:28:29	Ben Edgington:	More compressed = less time to observe, and less time to respond. Need to allow time for hf/deployment in case of trouble.
00:28:38	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "More compressed = leâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:28:41	Caleb:	Reacted to "More compressed = ..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:43	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "More compressed = le..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:50	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "More compressed = leâ€¦"
3 weeks feels like the minimum we should have them apart
00:28:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "More compressed = le..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:10	Anders Elowsson:	Maybe we should consider targets that when multiplied with (3/2) gives an integer limit?
00:29:22	Anders Elowsson:	i.e., 10/15, etc
00:29:42	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I would not push the..."

I mean, i would space them out more so that the high numbers only ship after slot restructuring
00:29:49	potuz:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

I think in addition to these we need to account for the usual delay in actually blob space and usage catching up. It hasn't been immediate in the past
00:30:17	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I would not push the..."

Is the bandwidth requirement for validators taken into account here when we are pushing those?
00:30:46	Barnabas:	Iâ€™d like to add that scheduling an extra BPO fork should be very easy.
00:30:51	Francesco:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

We can spam mainnet to see high blob throughput regardless of real usage (as long as the 21k fee isnâ€™t prohibitively high)
00:31:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	For p2p stuff, mainnet data is kind of the only data that really matters. Any testing data just helps us derisk.
00:31:15	potuz:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

+1
00:32:01	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

This is the plan
00:32:01	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "For p2p stuff, mainn..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:09	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

Iâ€™ve been told â€œbudget approvedâ€ ğŸ˜„
00:32:48	potuz:	Reacted to "For p2p stuff, mainn..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:57	pk910:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

rly?  we gonna do mainnet blob spmming?? lol
00:33:08	potuz:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ve been told â€œbudg..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:16	stokes:	Replying to "More compressed = le..."

yes
00:34:29	Phil Ngo:	Iâ€™d like to add that weâ€™re also currently reviewing >10,000 lines of code to merge this onto our unstable.
00:34:57	Manu:	Prysm has also >4k lines of code yet to merge into our unstable branch
00:35:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	There should obviously never be hesitancy to voice concerns on here
00:35:19	Dustin:	Replying to "Iâ€™d like to add t..."

Nimbus has also not fully reviewed the code being merged from the fusaka-devnet-3 branch, yeah
00:35:26	Barnabas:	Can you guys propose an alternative  timeline?
00:35:27	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ve been told â€œbudg..." with ğŸ˜„
00:35:35	Manu:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:35	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Is this mostly about CL peerdas implementations?
00:35:42	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:43	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "yes" with ğŸ”¥
00:35:44	potuz:	can we split the discussion instead of delay/no delay to perhaps an option of forking Holesky without master branch releases?
00:35:47	Chris:	Reacted to "There should obvio..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:48	Chris:	Reacted to "There should obvio..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:50	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "There should obviousâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:35:52	Fredrik:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:00	ethDreamer (Mark):	PR CONGA LINE
00:36:04	potuz:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:05	ethDreamer (Mark):	You guys have to try it
00:36:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:19	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:20	ethDreamer (Mark):	Split forks up into multiple PRs on top of each other
00:36:27	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:28	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:28	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:29	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Prysm has also >4k lâ€¦"
Does Prysm also need +4 weeks or so for this?
00:36:36	kingy_sigp:	Lighthouse are fine with a four week delay if that gets everyone aligned and stable
00:36:39	ethDreamer (Mark):	Then merge into unstable one piece at a time
00:36:44	Manu:	One solid devnet with >90% private mempool (so without getBlobsv2)
00:36:50	Barnabas:	we have been doing private mempool testing
00:36:55	Stefan Bratanov:	Teku has been on master for a while now, but we have been through a pain of merging, so I understand the proposed delay
00:36:56	Manu:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

Whatâ€™s the percentage?
00:36:58	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Note: fusaka-devnet-3 has private mempool testing
00:37:07	Barnabas:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

100%
00:37:17	Barnabas:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

there are bugs with the private mempool propagation
00:37:19	Barnabas:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

but thats another topic
00:37:25	Manu:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io/mev/blocks
00:37:31	Justin Traglia:	If we delay by ~1 month, itâ€™s likely going to be delayed by 3 months because of holidays.
00:37:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

its not running now
00:37:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

Yeah non finality since the morning
00:37:40	Tim Beiko:	Would be good to hear from Prysm + Nimbus a bit more!
00:37:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

But we had days of spamming
00:37:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "we have been doing p..."

Check data from ~2d ago ğŸ˜„
00:38:49	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ’¯
00:38:49	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:50	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "There should obvious..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:01	Matthew Keil:	Replying to "Is this mostly about..."

Yes
00:39:10	James He:	Reacted to "Is this mostly about..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:46	Parithosh Jayanthi:	E.g: https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io/slot/106243
00:40:37	potuz:	Blobs were comming regularly on all blocks with the expected throghput @Parithosh JayanthiÂ ? or some were with zero regularly
00:40:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I am a bit surprised, two speakers raising need for testing without getBlobsv2, sounds like that has been happening for weeks already, so is this more a case of lack of communication?
00:40:55	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I am a bit surprisedâ€¦"
Or is this about different tests?
00:41:00	potuz:	no, this was a request for a long time Ansgar
00:41:14	J Sunnyside Labs:	Sunnyside Labs, we also tested without getblobsv2 and saw about ~15% less blob throughput (though it has been a while)
00:41:28	potuz:	this was already specified as a hard requirement to set a timeline before the previous ACDC
00:41:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Blobs were comming r..."

We did random checks and they were stably included, but we can come back with an inclusion analysis to see how much worse it gets without getblobsV2
00:41:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	So main concern is more about code readiness for releases? Makes sense
00:41:51	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "I am a bit surprised..."

I think we also need to take into account the engineerâ€™s confidence in their code. Otherwise tech debt gets merged in with it. Weâ€™re doing a lot of cleanup on hacky code that was done to make things work for devotes.
00:42:02	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think we also need..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:04	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "I am a bit surprised..."

*devnets
00:42:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think we also need..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:16	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "I think we also need..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:17	Manu:	Reacted to "I think we also need..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:22	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think we also needâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:26	potuz:	Replying to "Blobs were comming r..."

If they were relatively regular that's alredy good enough. The mempool being purely private is not reallistic anyway
00:42:40	potuz:	Reacted to "I think we also need..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:51	potuz:	Reacted to "So main concern is m..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:09	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Blobs were comming r..."

Yeh, thereâ€™s a tx propagation bug in reth/rbuilder - but itâ€™s unrelated to blobs or peerDAS in itself. Just makes the data messier. Weâ€™ll get back with proper data once bugs are patched.
00:44:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "So main concern is m..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:07	Barnabas:	There was more time, which means that pectra was also delayed by like 3 months compared to initial target
00:45:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Okay, right, it is what it is, if these concerns exist, we canâ€™t ignore them.

Of course "Fusaka pre Devconnect" has been a big goal - is there any world to allow for more time while still keeping the possibility of that alive? Say 2-4 weeks delay, and cutting out some weeks somewhere in our timeline from first releases to mainnet fork?

Just asking, not pushing for that
00:45:45	Tim Beiko:	If we delayed by 4 weeks, we could still ship in December, but we should consider what our go/no-go criteria are
00:46:51	potuz:	I think delays for master releases can be made semi-independent of releases for testnests. Specially Holesky for example
00:46:58	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think delays for m..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:47:01	potuz:	so that the final delay is not so bad as the proposed 4 weeks
00:47:03	Barnabas:	I personally think the main issue is that we didnâ€™t have enough engineering time allocated to fusaka, especially in smaller client teams. 

Ideally we need main senior engineers working on fork + 1, and allocate less resources on fork + 2 or fork + ?. 

If we had more engineers working on fusaka full time, we could have shipped 1st of Sep.
00:47:08	Manu:	Reacted to "I think delays for m..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:47:14	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I think delays for mâ€¦"
Maybe for Holesly, but IMO live testnets should get proper releases
00:47:16	Caleb:	Reacted to "I think we also ne..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:47:50	Tim Beiko:	Yes, would be curious to understand this better, esp. given it shows up across multiple teams
00:47:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Could we do Holesky in September so it isnâ€™t on the critical path? With non trunk releases
00:48:09	potuz:	Reacted to "Could we do Holesky ..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:52	Dustin:	Replying to "Could we do Holesk..."

non-trunk releases are a challenge for Nimbus. I mean, sure, we can point to a non-canonical release, but typically Nimbus doesn't do "testnet-only" releases
00:49:14	potuz:	Replying to "Could we do Holesky ..."

how are you running on devnet-3?
00:49:19	potuz:	Replying to "Could we do Holesky ..."

is it master?
00:49:25	Dustin:	Replying to "Could we do Holesk..."

it's a branch
00:49:35	potuz:	Replying to "Could we do Holesky ..."

yeah that's what I mean for Holesky
00:50:47	Chris:	Replying to "Could we do Holesk..."

I think this could end up being a pointless exercise. If we don't get full participation any bugs could get hidden in the noise. I have low confidence of getting full participation from all node operators if the releases are all on branches.
00:51:15	Barnabas:	we can aim to do a devnet 5 for 2nd sep
00:51:19	Barnabas:	that runs a week
00:51:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Can we get individual weeks from different places? Say 2 weeks by cutting down the delay between last testnet and mainnet, 2 weeks for not using master for Holesky, etc? Maybe we atill had a week of buffer pre devconnect as well?

So not just push everything back a month
00:51:29	potuz:	Reacted to "I think this could e..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:50	potuz:	Replying to "Could we do Holesky ..."

yeah my impression is that Holesky will be a non-finality test on the current code
00:52:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Could we do Holesky â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:52:16	Adrian (Lighthouse):	Reacted to "yeah my impression i..." with ğŸ˜
00:52:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	sounds pectraey
00:52:49	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "sounds pectraey" with ğŸ‘
00:53:04	Chris:	Reacted to "sounds pectraey" with ğŸ˜¬
00:53:07	potuz:	Reacted to "sounds pectraey" with ğŸ˜¬
00:53:34	Dustin:	Pectra got oops-delayed by another 1.5 months or so, maybe 1 month, by insufficient testing, as it happened
00:53:44	Dustin:	it was not a case of moving too slowly
00:54:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	We could explore different timeline adjustments and make a decision on ACDT?
00:54:54	Justin Florentine (Besu):	was referring to the suggestion of testing early nets from non-merged-to-trunk clients. sounds like a good way to mis config opts, such as what complicated pectra
00:54:57	Francesco:	One thing is readiness, testing etcâ€¦ but letâ€™s not create requirements that donâ€™t need to be there, e.g. syncing in perfect peerdas when thereâ€™s literally no peers you could even theoretically get your data from
00:55:00	Manu:	Holesky in September: Prysm ok
00:55:08	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "One thing is readine..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:10	Dustin:	Nimbus ok too
00:55:21	Matthew Keil:	Hole sky sept: lodestar is ok
00:55:27	kingy_sigp:	Lighthouse are OK
00:55:43	pawan:	Reacted to "One thing is readine..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:46	potuz:	Reacted to "One thing is readine..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	But of course, even with the latent eth/acc vibes this year, safety always comes first
00:55:58	pawan:	Replying to "One thing is readine..."

Strong agree. Its a very contrived scenario
00:56:10	felix (eest):	Reacted to "But of course, eve..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:12	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "One thing is readine..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:14	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:15	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:19	Chris:	I think it would be worth getting a temp check on Holesky validators TG that participants are happy to run non-releases on Holesky in September.
00:56:20	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "One thing is readine..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:20	nixo:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:21	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:25	potuz:	Replying to "One thing is readine..."

I think the testing on perfect peerdas is not so much about syncing but just gossiping working
00:56:28	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:56:50	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:50	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "But of course, even ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:59	Fredrik:	Regarding the audit competition then, should we do that earlier on the holesky code or wait until later?
00:57:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Then I would propose not having Glamsterdam headliner discussion today. Premature. All focus Fusaka.
00:57:06	potuz:	Replying to "One thing is readine..."

because smaller testsnets don't have the bandwitdh issue of propagating blobs when the mempool is slower and is fully propagated
00:57:16	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1638#issuecomment-3161024180
00:57:18	Francesco:	Yeah testing is fine, just referencing the discussion on Monday about genesis syncing, which would need full nodes to go and try to grab 64 columns to reconstruct
00:57:21	potuz:	Replying to "One thing is readine..."

so it's imperative to test in a scenario where nodes can't get all blobs from the EL
00:57:21	pawan:	Replying to "One thing is readine..."

I agree gossip should work. Syncing is crazy given it takes 2 seconds to reconstruct blobs for a single block
00:57:26	Tim Beiko:	More of a process thing, but IMO it would have been more productive for each team to individually voice this async ahead of the call. We should minimize the element of surprise in these things as much as we can.
00:57:26	Barnabas:	Replying to "Regarding the audit ..."

maybe we can gate it to clients that have releases?
00:57:47	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "But of course, even â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:57:54	terence:	has the api been discussed in the RollCall?
00:58:20	potuz:	Replying to "One thing is readine..."

Problem is that if we get a bug in which an entire client needs to restart and sync, this starts to be critical
00:58:32	nflaig:	https://github.com/ethereum/beacon-APIs/pull/546
00:59:09	Fredrik:	Replying to "Regarding the audit ..."

Iâ€™ve been thinking the same, but then the issue is that we will have clients which devs/users may not feel as confident about
00:59:09	James He:	Reacted to "Problem is that if w..." with ğŸ’¯
00:59:18	terence:	ah ok, at least mention in the eth R&D discord then, RollCall channel
00:59:28	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "ah ok, at least ment..."

Yeah, exactly
00:59:48	nflaig:	Replying to "ah ok, at least ment..."

there is a thread in api channel in R&D discord
01:00:04	nflaig:	Replying to "ah ok, at least ment..."

https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1399322034273521797
01:00:50	terence:	Replying to "ah ok, at least ment..."

for sure, but RollCall channel is bridged via telegram with the L2 devs, just not sure if they pay attention to the api channel
01:00:54	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "One thing is readineâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:01:11	nixo:	+1
01:01:40	Justin Florentine (Besu):	EL devs already CFId BAL for Glamsterdam taps watch
01:01:57	nflaig:	Replying to "ah ok, at least ment..."

let me share it there as well
01:02:04	Barnabas:	Iâ€™m really not in favor of pushing decision making on headliners by another 2 weeks
01:02:09	potuz:	In two weeks we will have about 10 different proposals as alternatives for ePBS
01:02:12	Justin Traglia:	I think now is the time to decide
01:02:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	same. not sure what we'd do the time?
01:02:17	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:19	potuz:	we are getting one more per day
01:02:20	Felix (Geth):	I don't think we have 'conditionally' CFId BALs.
01:02:21	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:22	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:24	potuz:	this is becoming ridiculous
01:02:26	Leo:	Reacted to "In two weeks we wi..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:32	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:33	Adrian (Lighthouse):	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:36	Felix (Geth):	We have CFId it period
01:02:36	Eitan:	Reacted to "In two weeks we willâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:48	felix (eest):	Reacted to "In two weeks we wi..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:52	Caleb:	Reacted to "In two weeks we wi..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:02:58	Barnabas:	Ansgar is in holiday mood?
01:02:59	Barnabas:	ğŸ˜‚
01:03:00	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:02	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4476
01:03:03	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4476
01:03:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Ansgar is in holidayâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:19	pawan:	Reacted to "In two weeks we will..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Ansgar is in holidayâ€¦"
Iâ€™m in Fusaka shipping mood
01:03:29	Caleb:	Reacted to "Iâ€™m in Fusaka shi..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:32	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Iâ€™m in Fusaka shippi..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:03:33	terence:	Reacted to "let me share it ther..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:20	terence:	Lgtm
01:04:28	Barnabas:	Replying to "Ansgar is in holiday..."

the two are independent of each other
01:04:31	pawan:	Lighthouse in favour too
01:04:37	Barnabas:	Replying to "Ansgar is in holiday..."

and we realistically need to start testing epbs this month
01:04:50	Barnabas:	Could you guys thumbs up the PR then?
01:05:05	pawan:	Reacted to "Could you guys thumb..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:06	Radek:	Reacted to "In two weeks we wi..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:21	Justin Traglia:	Yes, maybe within a week or two?
01:05:34	potuz:	7805
01:05:54	Barnabas:	Replying to "Yes, maybe within a ..."

lets aim to merge it by next acd?
01:05:55	Trent:	In case anyone hasnâ€™t seen, FB followed up with part II of their free option problem in ePBS

https://collective.flashbots.net/t/the-free-option-problem-in-epbs-part-ii/5145
01:05:56	potuz:	7732+7805+7782 depend on it
01:06:05	nixo:	https://efdn.notion.site/Stakeholder-feedback-synthesized-247d9895554180048a8bd279a28798a1
01:06:11	Stefan Bratanov:	Replying to "Lighthouse in favour..."

likewise for Teku!
01:06:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "https://efdn.notion...." with ğŸ”¥
01:06:21	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "7732+7805+7782 depen..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:04	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "https://efdn.notion...." with ğŸ”¥
01:07:07	potuz:	This is a short summary of that thread's direct voting
01:07:40	Bastin:	Reacted to "potuz has sent you a..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:50	soispoke:	Reacted to "fo.jpg" with ğŸ‘
01:08:28	terence:	Saw...  protocol research & design (Nethermind)  had a vote... Could protocol research & design (Prysm) add a vote too? : )
01:08:44	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Saw...  protocol res..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
01:08:55	Barnabas:	Replying to "Saw...  protocol res..."

prysm already had a â€œvoteâ€œ
01:08:59	potuz:	Reacted to "Saw...  protocol res..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
01:09:07	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Saw...  protocol res..."

Only if lighthouse research and design can vote too :p
01:09:09	potuz:	Replying to "Saw...  protocol res..."

so did Nethermind, that's the point
01:09:29	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to https://efdn.notion.... with "ğŸ”¥"
01:09:35	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "https://efdn.notion...." with ğŸ”¥
01:09:41	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "Problem is that if w..." with ğŸ’¯
01:09:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Saw...  protocol res..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
01:10:00	Lin Oshitani | Nethermind:	Replying to "Saw...  protocol res..."

Note that Nethermind research is independent from Nethermind client team (we are 300ppl company), and that post was written independently too.
01:10:01	Justin Florentine (Besu):	thanks nixo, and thanks for capturing the nuance about FOCIL prefs
01:10:11	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and tha..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Note that Nethermind..." with ğŸ”¥
01:10:16	potuz:	Replying to "Saw...  protocol res..."

Terence was obviously joking
01:10:20	nixo:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and tha..." with ğŸ’™
01:10:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Terence was obviousl..." with ğŸ”¥
01:10:31	Lin Oshitani | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Terence was obviousl..." with ğŸ”¥
01:10:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and tha..." with ğŸ’™
01:10:39	soispoke:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and tha..." with ğŸ’™
01:10:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Note that Nethermind..." with ğŸ’¯
01:10:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I personally think the EL features in Glamsterdam are the most important (BALs plus repricing). I would personally want us to have a clear decision that we ship whatever is ready by March, even if that would e.g. mean kicking the CL headliner back out.
01:10:58	Lin Oshitani | Nethermind:	Replying to "Saw...  protocol res..."

Ah, ok ğŸ˜…
01:11:00	wolovim:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and t..." with ğŸ’™
01:11:00	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Note that Nethermind..." with ğŸ’¯
01:11:02	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Terence was obviousl..." with ğŸ”¥
01:11:15	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and tha..." with ğŸ’™
01:11:31	potuz:	BALs become much more of a tradeoff without ePBS
01:11:41	potuz:	with 30% larger blocks
01:11:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I personally think tâ€¦"
Basically, have an interop in March, and kick out anything that is not clearly within weeks of RC readiness by the end of interop.
01:11:53	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "Saw...  protocol res..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
01:12:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I personally think t..."

or just decouple the forks
01:12:23	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "or just decouple the..." with ğŸ¿
01:12:37	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "or just decouple the..." with ğŸ¿
01:12:37	Bastin:	Reacted to "or just decouple the..." with ğŸ¿
01:12:40	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "In case anyone hasnâ€™..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:42	nixo:	Reacted to "or just decouple the..." with ğŸ¿
01:12:43	potuz:	Replying to "I personally think t..."

that's how Verkle never happened, exactly this way
01:13:26	Sophia Gold:	IIUC ePBS increases execution throughput more than BALs so I would say the CL is much more important for Glamsterdam and we should not delay it
01:13:28	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "Maybe for Holesly, b..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I personally think t..."

idk why March is significant?
01:13:35	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "or just decouple the..." with ğŸ¿
01:14:11	Caleb:	Reacted to "IIUC ePBS increase..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "IIUC ePBS increases ..." with â•
01:14:15	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "IIUC ePBS increases ..." with â•
01:15:08	Bastin:	Reacted to "IIUC ePBS increases ..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:47	Anders Elowsson:	Just a note that we do not wish to add the IL bitfield to the bid unless attesters are going to vote on it. If the PTC votes on it, the builder need not include the bitfield in the bid. 
But I do think we should pursue the ABB design.
01:16:52	Justin Florentine (Besu):	the notion of "would have fit" is interesting
01:17:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "the notion of "would..."

does that imply re-execution?
01:17:28	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Wait we are only making headliner decision today, right? Is it not obvious that we will not make FOCIL a solo headliner already?

Even if we want to consider combining it with ePBS, process would be only selecting ePBS as headliner today, and then consider FOCIL in the "normal EIP" stage in the next calls, no?
01:17:42	terence:	it's not clear to me where this is going, are we deciding glamsterdam CL headliner today?
01:17:48	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Wait we are only mak..." with ğŸ‘
01:17:48	stokes:	Replying to "it's not clear to me..."

yes
01:17:54	stokes:	Replying to "it's not clear to me..."

But some requests for input
01:17:57	soispoke:	Hereâ€™s also a high level write up about ePBS and FOCIL compatibility if people are interested: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/epbs-focil-compatibility/24777 

And there was also a discussion + presentation on the last FOCIL breakout session: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjWReOSaT-o
01:18:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Wait we are only makâ€¦"
As in, we should make decision against FOCIL as headliner asap, and then put it put of scope for today.
01:18:25	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "Wait we are only mak..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:36	stokes:	Replying to "Wait we are only mak..."

I think its part of the epbs decision
01:18:43	stokes:	Replying to "Wait we are only mak..."

And if we want FOCIL as a non-headliner it is also relevant
01:18:58	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Wait we are only makâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:18:59	ethDreamer (Mark):	This is a (premature) PR of FOCIL on top of 7732:
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4493
01:18:59	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "lets aim to merge it..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:03	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Wait we are only mak..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:04	potuz:	can we move on to headliner decision that was what we have agreed to do many weeks ago, and then have these discussions? I am a bit mind blown by the ordering of this meeting
01:19:19	terence:	I feel like FOCIL technical discussions is better suited in ACDT or bi weekly FOCIL breakout
01:19:23	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "This is a (premature..."

^ consensus-specs
01:19:37	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "thanks nixo, and thaâ€¦" with ğŸ’™
01:19:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Wait we are only makâ€¦"
non-headliners are not today though
01:19:43	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "In case anyone hasnâ€™â€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:19:50	Caleb:	Reacted to "can we move on to ..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:56	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "can we move on to he..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:03	Jihoon:	Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KmRsdpDNQpxOlWF0ThqZNRTBDWMV8RuCNLsMjDf9XRo/edit?usp=sharing
FOCIL for CL: https://hackmd.io/@jihoonsong/rJX-fxADxl
FOCIL for EL: https://hackmd.io/@jihoonsong/BJpcaudvex
01:20:18	Caleb:	Reacted to "Slides: https://do..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:53	Harry | Sunnyside:	Reacted to "Slides: https://docs..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I personally think tâ€¦"
Just throwing out a date, point is more, I personally would not want to delay the fork for a headliner
01:20:59	potuz:	ohhh that's much better
01:21:26	terence:	yay
01:21:39	soispoke:	Replying to "Wait we are only mak..."

But FOCIL is in a bit of a weird place because it has received broad support from the community as a headliner already
01:21:41	potuz:	yeah that's the number we were using internally too, it's good news
01:21:59	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "But FOCIL is in a bi..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:02	soispoke:	Replying to "Wait we are only mak..."

So it has a bit of an in between status I think itâ€™s worth discussing
01:22:07	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "So it has a bit of a..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Wait we are only makâ€¦"
I am open to considering it instead of ePBS still
01:22:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Wait we are only makâ€¦"
Just doesnâ€™t seem like a realistic outcome
01:22:56	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "Slides: https://docs..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:02	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Wait we are only mak..."

FOCIL + ePBS is more realistic than FOCIL instead of ePBS
01:23:04	soispoke:	Replying to "Wait we are only mak..."

I mean this is a discussion that can also happen (but I also think itâ€™s unlikely) 

I would say these are two separate conversations to have
01:23:09	soispoke:	Reacted to "FOCIL + ePBS is more..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:12	soispoke:	Reacted to "Just doesnâ€™t seem li..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:19	Bastin:	Reacted to "FOCIL + ePBS is more..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:21	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "FOCIL + ePBS is moreâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:23:24	soispoke:	Reacted to "Slides: https://docs..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:26	potuz:	Reacted to "FOCIL + ePBS is more..." with ğŸ‘
01:24:01	pawan:	Reacted to "FOCIL + ePBS is more..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:06	Francesco:	ğŸ¥ğŸ¥
01:25:08	Sophia Gold:	If we're potentially SFIing ePBS today, I think it would be good to have a discussion of the dual deadline and impact of changing it. Including a tldr of how much execution time is added, how much blob propagation time is added with the current design, how much if the blob deadline is moved, and extrapolation to additional blob throughput
01:25:11	Caleb:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜‚
01:25:13	potuz:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜
01:25:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜‚
01:25:16	soispoke:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜‚
01:25:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜
01:25:17	felix (eest):	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜‚
01:25:20	Leo:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜‚
01:25:23	Jihoon:	Replying to "I feel like FOCIL te..."

I think it could be useful information for people who couldn't afford to take a look into it.
01:25:24	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	I think no big CL feature should be added on top of ePBS. It alone touches enough major parts of the protocol and should be shipped in isolation to other changes, especially those affecting fork choice.
Max., have focil as a strech goal but kick it if it would delay the fork.
01:25:27	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜‚
01:25:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think no big CL fe..." with ğŸ”¥
01:25:51	Caleb:	If we're potentially SFIing ePBS today, I think it would be good to have a discussion of the dual deadline and impact of changing it. Including a tldr of how much execution time is added, how much blob propagation time is added with the current design, how much if the blob deadline is moved, and extrapolation to additional blob throughput
probably bst suited for the testing call
01:25:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think no big CL fe..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I think no big CL fe..." with ğŸ¤”
01:26:05	potuz:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

I do think these timelines need to be computed and benchmarked precisely to be set
01:26:06	soispoke:	Replying to "I think no big CL fe..."

That was basically what I wanted to propose, just waiting for the sort of ePBS verdict first
01:26:17	stokes:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥ğŸ¥" with ğŸ˜
01:26:23	potuz:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

and as the flashbots guys pointed, it's imperative to have a way to adjust them at runtime specially with BPOs
01:26:51	Jihoon:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

Does T stand for technical? ğŸ˜‚
01:26:52	potuz:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

but those are technical details of adjusting a single constant in the spec riather than something to be discussed in ACD at this stage I believe
01:26:54	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I think no big CL fe..." 

 The default should then be to include in on a devnet as late in the process as possible to not risk big work from removing it
01:27:01	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I think no big CL fe..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:08	potuz:	+1 from me, not discussed with PRysm
01:27:15	Caleb:	Reacted to "Does T stand for t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:27:23	potuz:	I was like Barnabas 4 weeks ago, SFI ePBS CFI FOCIL
01:27:23	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "If we're potential..."

Can you estimate the additional execution time? This shouldn't be changing and I feel like I should already know it
01:27:28	Justin Florentine (Besu):	love it, and would be open to trying FOCIL and boot if it threatens ePBS
01:27:36	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I was like Barnabas ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:27:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I would strongly request we stick to process and do not CFI any non-headliners today
01:27:46	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	How realistic is it that we realize focil and epbs are too big and suddenly removing focil would impact epbs and the "pulling out" turns more complex as thought
01:28:07	potuz:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

I think with current numbers of propagation we should get at the very least 8 seconds execution for proposers and 10 seconds exectuion for attesters
01:28:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I would strongly req..."

but I do think having FOCIL as a stretch goal EIP is a reasonable idea
01:28:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	FOCIL is kind of a co-headliner in this case.
01:28:14	stokes:	Reacted to "I would strongly req..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:29	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "I think with curre..." with ğŸ”¥
01:28:40	Barnabas:	FOCIL was proposed as a headliner. Making a decision about it today is the right place imo.
01:28:42	Anders Elowsson:	If the PTC_P point stays the same, there is no additional execution time added. Removing the dual deadine would only put some optimisation pressure toward reducing execution time
01:28:43	stokes:	I think we should derisk this before putting it in
01:28:48	potuz:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

this is assuming that we keep the current design and not trade off on the free option problem
01:28:49	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "How realistic is it ..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:51	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "How realistic is it ..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:56	stokes:	Replying to "FOCIL was proposed a..."

It is not a headliner
01:28:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "FOCIL was proposed a..."

well then the decision is no
01:29:01	stokes:	Replying to "FOCIL was proposed a..."

But can still be in glamsterdam
01:29:11	terence:	Replying to "FOCIL was proposed a..."

when do we decide that?
01:29:16	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "FOCIL was proposed a..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:24	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "when do we decide th..." with ğŸ’¯
01:29:25	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "If we're potential..."

@Anders Elowsson I mean vs. current execution time
01:29:41	stokes:	Replying to "FOCIL was proposed a..."

Soon (tm)
01:29:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	â€œslows down the forkâ€ - that must include slowing down the EL side of the fork though, otherwise ePBS and FOCIL as a batch will just delay and slow down the EL
01:29:47	Barnabas:	Replying to "FOCIL was proposed a..."

how is it not a headliner? Its a huge change on its own.
01:29:49	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "It is not a headline..." with ğŸ¤”
01:29:55	Tim Beiko:	How about we SFI EPBS + BALs, CFI FOCIL, and make a SFI decision for FOCIL once we are further in the development process and know what we are comparing FOCIL with?
01:30:05	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:30:09	soispoke:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:30:09	terence:	Replying to "How about we SFI EPB..."

makes sense to me
01:30:11	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:30:12	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â¤ï¸
01:30:13	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "how is it not a head..." with â•
01:30:14	soispoke:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â¤ï¸
01:30:17	Caleb:	Reacted to "How about we SFI E..." with â•
01:30:44	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â¤ï¸
01:30:45	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:30:53	nixo:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:31:13	felix (eest):	Reacted to "How about we SFI E..." with â•
01:31:20	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:31:30	Bastin:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:39	Tim Beiko:	^ this means glamsterdam-devnet-1 is EPBS + BALs, then devnet-2 could include FOCIL
01:31:51	potuz:	I agree, semanthics are irrelevant
01:31:54	Francesco:	How are we saying this after talking about delaying Fusaka an hour ago ğŸ˜…
01:32:00	Eitan:	FOCIL changes are along similar code paths that ePBS is already changing. There is some development synergy here
01:32:04	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "How are we saying th..." with ğŸ‘€
01:32:04	pawan:	Reacted to "I agree, semanthics ..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:05	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to How are we saying th... with "ğŸ‘"
01:32:05	soispoke:	The broader point is not to exclude EIPs with broad support based on semantics or strict process
01:32:06	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "How are we saying th..." with ğŸ‘€
01:32:13	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "How are we saying th..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:16	Josh Davis:	Headliner means not kicked out for fork delay
01:32:25	potuz:	Reacted to "How are we saying th..." with ğŸ˜€
01:32:32	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Headliner means not ... with "ğŸ‘"
01:32:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	there is EL work for FOCIL, and capacity considering BAL
01:32:38	potuz:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

Good thing is that Glamsterdam doesn't have a timeline
01:32:42	Sophia Gold:	The reason to not call FOCIL a headliner is that we don't want to block on it if it's not done when ePBS is. It's okay for it to be bumped one fork, but not more than that
01:32:50	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "Headliner means no..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:51	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "The reason to not caâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:32:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "The reason to not ca..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:06	potuz:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

I think it's worth to have FOCIL at the cost of having a larger fork, if it was any other feature I'd be happy to have ePBS and nothing else
01:33:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

because crypto twitter rips on us for not being "ambitious" enough.
01:33:21	potuz:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

FOCIL is really at risk to be now or never
01:33:21	Francesco:	+1, if we start with epbs + focil it will never be separated without huge pain
01:33:32	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "FOCIL is really at r..." with ğŸ’¯
01:33:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "FOCIL is really at r..." with ğŸ’¯
01:33:48	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

Isnâ€™t focil or something similar to it basically a MUST before zk-enshrining?
01:33:52	soispoke:	Replying to "+1, if we start with..."

Devs that have worked on both said code changes are actually most orthogonal
01:33:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "+1, if we start with..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:59	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to +1, if we start with... with "ğŸ‘"
01:34:05	stokes:	Replying to "How about we SFI EPB..."

I would lean to not CFI just following the original post
01:34:12	Dustin:	Replying to "How are we saying ..."

that's years from now, by usual timelines from lean
01:34:12	stokes:	Replying to "How about we SFI EPB..."

But also seems fine
01:34:18	stokes:	Replying to "How about we SFI EPB..."

To CFI today
01:34:23	Francesco:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

Why? Either way, we wonâ€™t enshrine zk in 2026
01:34:27	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "+1, if we start with..." with ğŸ‘
01:34:30	Jihoon:	Replying to "+1, if we start with..."

I would like to learn what devs think about this
01:34:31	Dustin:	Replying to "How are we saying ..."

3 years is the smallest credible number I've seen
01:34:33	Caleb:	ePBS headlines while FOCIL supports, it's all about who you sync with
01:34:37	George Kadianakis:	Reacted to +1, if we start with... with "ğŸ‘"
01:34:39	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "How are we saying ..."

Not just for enshrining, for scaling with zk at all...
01:34:44	potuz:	Replying to "+1, if we start with..."

I don't understand thje comment Francesco, if ePBS is already SFI, then we never are in a situation of needing to separate
01:34:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Not just for enshrin..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:34:50	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "If we're potentially..."

@Sophia Gold Aha sorry. Yes, as potuz mentioned then. We get S-PTC_P in execution time. So if we set PTC_P early, we gain more.
01:34:57	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

Which seems like we might start doing next year onwards
01:35:05	potuz:	Replying to "+1, if we start with..."

there is no future of FOCIL without ePBS if it's actually SFId
01:35:36	Francesco:	Replying to "+1, if we start with..."

The opposite, â€œif we are not managing to ship the fork in time we take focil out"
01:35:47	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "How are we saying ..."

I think it's fine for it to be in H fork but not later. I'm sympathetic to arguments that deprioritizing it now means it won't happen in time
01:35:48	Trent:	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

Any links about FOCIL <> zk?
01:35:50	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "+1, if we start with..." 

 The specs for both are still in progress, so, I wouldn't underestimate the complexity.
They interact, thus, removing one will be complex.
01:35:52	potuz:	Replying to "How about we SFI EPB..."

Echoing this, Tim's comment is exactly my favorite fork
01:36:00	soispoke:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with ğŸ‘
01:36:02	Harry | Sunnyside:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:36:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	1-2 months delay over April would make me strongly oppose FOCIL fwiw
01:36:08	Barnabas:	Reacted to "How about we SFI EPB..." with â•
01:36:15	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "How are we saying ..."

I touched on it in the RTP blog post
01:36:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "How are we saying th..."

i actually think getting both in would be worth delaying (within reason)
01:37:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	if we accept FOCIL, we need to have super explicit agreement on process though.

â€œif it delays ePBS, we will kick it outâ€ - that is not good enough, who makes that call, and when?

If we say we donâ€™t wait for the CL headliner(s), then it is easy, then it is in the best interest of the ePBS champions to honestly track FOCIL delay concerns and act on them.
01:37:08	Francesco:	Feels like everyone is being delusional again with the timelines because otherwise the EIP will not get included
01:37:27	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "1-2 months delay ove..."

I would be fine with delaying to include both, up to about August
01:37:27	terence:	i see no reason not to CFI focil today, we are not SFI'ing focil
01:37:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

good thing we are not talking about deadlines
01:37:45	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

what timelines?
01:37:56	felix (eest):	Reacted to "i see no reason no..." with ğŸ‘
01:37:59	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

there has been no talk on Glamsterdam timelines as we did for Fusaka
01:38:07	soispoke:	Replying to "1-2 months delay ove..."

I think not considering broad community input and devs for a month delay would not be a good decision tbh
01:38:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	so would we get a strong commitment from all CL clients to not dedicate any work to FOCIL until ePBS is stable?

sounds like that is what Alex just proposed
01:38:17	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

I see Ansgar saying MArch, but ePBS will not be ready for March
01:38:21	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

not at all
01:38:24	soispoke:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

4 CL clients have already worked on FOCIL
01:38:27	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I would be fine with..." with ğŸ‘
01:38:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

thatâ€™s what I mean
01:38:30	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

with or without FOCIL
01:38:30	Dustin:	Replying to "Feels like everyon..."

Francesco just talked about March/Apr
01:38:31	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think not consider..." with ğŸ‘
01:38:32	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "4 CL clients have al..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:38:33	terence:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

prysm has working branch for both
01:38:38	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "prysm has working br..." with â¤ï¸
01:38:40	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

no freaking way
01:38:43	felipe:	Reacted to "prysm has working ..." with â¤ï¸
01:38:46	Jihoon:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

Depends on CL client team I think. Some team can working on both in parallel like Lodestar
01:38:47	Dustin:	Replying to "Feels like everyon..."

or Ansgar yeah
01:38:51	Francesco:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

I didn't?
01:38:54	Barnabas:	Could I ask for dedicated CL engineers for glamsterdam scope? Same way as we did with peerdas.
01:38:55	Dustin:	Replying to "Feels like everyon..."

oops
01:38:58	Jihoon:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

That's one of feedback I've gathered
01:39:02	Dustin:	Replying to "Feels like everyon..."

Anyway, timelines are being discussed
01:39:18	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "so would we get a ..."

You can't accelerate something just by putting more devs on it
01:39:24	potuz:	Replying to "Feels like everyone ..."

no, there's no discussion, it's only Ansgar
01:39:43	Jihoon:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

Not talking about man month myth. I'm talking about 0 or not 0
01:40:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	idk why we're talking more about dates than fork composition
01:40:15	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:40:17	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:40:19	soispoke:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with ğŸ‘
01:40:19	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "so would we get a ..."

I was responding to Ansgar. They should have as many as necessary for ePBS, but there's a limit. Presumably not the whole team
01:40:20	soispoke:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:40:21	Francesco:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

CL clients worked on PeerDAS for a year before Pectra shipped as well
01:40:21	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:40:22	Barnabas:	if we doing EL only fork then why are we even talking about glamsterdam? That would be just Amsterdam.
01:40:26	Jihoon:	Reacted to "I was responding to ..." with â¤ï¸
01:40:30	James He:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with ğŸ‘
01:40:32	James He:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:40:33	potuz:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with ğŸ‘
01:40:36	Barnabas:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:40:42	pawan:	Reacted to "no, there's no discu..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:40:48	Jihoon:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

PeerDAS had no stable spec back then. FOCIL has stable specs in any regard
01:40:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "if we doing EL only ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:40:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	okay so we would not wait for say 2+ months for the CL headliner(s)?
01:41:08	Jihoon:	Replying to "so would we get a st..."

Sorry any regard is too much. I meant in CL, EL, engine API, rebase onto ePBS
01:41:16	Eitan:	Replying to "so would we get a stâ€¦"
I donâ€™t think peerdas is even a fair comparison itâ€™s a much more complex change than FOCIL
01:41:26	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:41:26	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with ğŸ‘
01:41:34	Barnabas:	There are plenty of work on ELs that can also delay a fork, if those repricing EIPs get included.
01:41:38	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:41:50	Jihoon:	Reacted to "idk why we're talkin..." with â•
01:41:55	Barnabas:	Iâ€™d not worry that EL would be ready so quick that they would be just sitting around .
01:42:06	nixo:	Reacted to "if we doing EL only ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:42:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "There are plenty of ..."

of course, good chance the EL is the one causing the delays.

Just talking about what if itâ€™s the CL, and itâ€™s a long delay
01:42:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	good work y'all
01:42:38	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to good work y'all with "â¤ï¸"
