WEBVTT

1
00:03:51.990 --> 00:03:54.380
Justin Florentine (Besu): Good morning, Glamster. Fans.

2
00:04:02.250 --> 00:04:02.980
Ben Adams: Hello!

3
00:04:03.810 --> 00:04:05.349
Tim Beiko: Good morning!

4
00:04:06.240 --> 00:04:07.060
Potuz: Hello!

5
00:04:51.650 --> 00:04:54.929
Tim Beiko: Okay, let's give it more than 2 min and we'll get started.

6
00:06:25.770 --> 00:06:30.280
Tim Beiko: Okay, could we move over to the live stream?

7
00:06:32.340 --> 00:06:33.770
Josh Davis: You are alive.

8
00:06:34.670 --> 00:06:59.699
Tim Beiko: Thank you. Welcome everyone to acde number 2, 16, 2 main things on the agenda today. So 1st updates on Fusaka and discussing yeah, where things are at, but also how we should approach trying to time the fork and

9
00:07:00.450 --> 00:07:06.960
Tim Beiko: especially in light of like the process we discussed after Petra going. Live as we can discuss this, and then there's a

10
00:07:07.190 --> 00:07:18.550
Tim Beiko: couple minor spec things as well. Then I wanted to at least open up the conversation around Amsterdam. We said we would spend the next 2 acds discussing on this.

11
00:07:18.740 --> 00:07:37.699
Tim Beiko: All of the teams have shared their preferences already, at least on the El side. So we can review that. And then also figure out like, Okay, what are the most important questions we need to answer in these next 2 calls, who's inputs? Do we perhaps want to solicit beyond just core devs? And then, yeah, take it from there.

12
00:07:38.650 --> 00:07:45.589
Tim Beiko: But yeah, to kick us off. This Panda Ops want to give an update on the Fusaka devnets.

13
00:07:46.760 --> 00:08:01.440
Barnabas: Sure I can give a quick update. We have 2 running now for almost 2 weeks we had a very stable week this week. We have a few bugs, most of them coming from consensus layer clients.

14
00:08:01.910 --> 00:08:14.589
Barnabas: So we have a lighthouse bug regarding the Cgc value. They set a wrong Cgc value in their Enr. And the metadata field is showing the right one. So there's some mismatch there.

15
00:08:14.770 --> 00:08:21.240
Barnabas: There's a lot, Starbuck, where it is doing excessive polling and getting banned by different peers.

16
00:08:22.710 --> 00:08:33.329
Barnabas: The Kuboot node was crashing, due to being overloaded by request. Basically, too much request is going into the database, and it was unable to keep up to head.

17
00:08:33.860 --> 00:08:40.229
Barnabas: They have a bug in the our builder right now still working on the rebase from the rest side.

18
00:08:40.840 --> 00:08:46.670
Barnabas: And ideally, we can get the workflow working by end of this week.

19
00:08:48.610 --> 00:08:55.479
Barnabas: Small. Your smaller issues Lucifer and Taku are waiting for a finalized

20
00:08:57.094 --> 00:09:11.305
Barnabas: Genesis validator. So basically, when you start up a new network they are going to wait for the 1st epoch to finalize before they update their T value, which is the wrong behavior.

21
00:09:12.200 --> 00:09:22.720
Barnabas: Prism metadata field is missing, and the blob schedule for lighthouse is in descending order instead of ascending order.

22
00:09:24.330 --> 00:09:31.150
Barnabas: and there seems to be a lighthouse minority for always prepare payload flag for

23
00:09:32.000 --> 00:09:38.080
Barnabas: trying to build all the blocks in the I'm using virtual

24
00:09:39.550 --> 00:09:44.119
Barnabas: and for prism the blob schedule is still missing from the spec. Beacon Api.

25
00:09:47.970 --> 00:09:49.089
Barnabas: Thank you.

26
00:09:50.970 --> 00:09:54.710
Tim Beiko: And any client teams have anything they want to add to this.

27
00:09:57.560 --> 00:10:03.610
Tim Beiko: Oh, prison has a Pr. To fix that issue about the drop schedule. Parents said in the chat.

28
00:10:05.200 --> 00:10:10.969
Tim Beiko: any other comments, thoughts from deadnet or sorry from client teams about deadnets.

29
00:10:17.200 --> 00:10:27.926
Tim Beiko: Okay, and I know we already had a rough spec for devnet 3 but I guess what I did want to bring up before that is

30
00:10:28.480 --> 00:10:37.771
Tim Beiko: the overall timeline for Petra or sorry for Petra, for Fusaka because after Petra

31
00:10:39.030 --> 00:10:57.879
Tim Beiko: or when we rolled out Petra, there were a couple of concerns. So 1st of all, sub teams in the ecosystem notably, I think a couple of the L. 2 teams said they would like to see a longer delay between the last release going on to Mainnet and the actual fork. So at least 30 days there and then

32
00:10:58.190 --> 00:11:04.670
Tim Beiko: the other thing that came up was that on the Ef security side.

33
00:11:05.030 --> 00:11:23.671
Tim Beiko: and other people too, but mostly yes, security to to have a longer window between the actual client releases that go live on test nets and the 1st test network, in order to do things like have security audits, or raise the bug bounty and and bring people's attention to these release.

34
00:11:24.413 --> 00:11:36.516
Tim Beiko: So Frederick had drafted like a process for the upgrade that included a 30 day window at both of those steps in in in the hard work process.

35
00:11:37.190 --> 00:11:39.230
Tim Beiko: and we discussed this a few months ago.

36
00:11:39.650 --> 00:11:46.769
Tim Beiko: So assuming we followed that and then everyone says, we want to ship Fusaka this year.

37
00:11:46.890 --> 00:12:11.719
Tim Beiko: historically trying to ship before the big conference at the end of the year has worked better than after, because one, there's work to do when we ship the fork, and 2 after that you quickly fall into the holidays. So assuming we wanted to ship before def connect this year, this means we'd want Mainnet to happen early Ish November. And if you work backwards from that it means that

38
00:12:12.080 --> 00:12:20.959
Tim Beiko: we would have to have clients releases sometimes late August. And I know that Alex also had, like a

39
00:12:21.360 --> 00:12:26.465
Tim Beiko: a shorter proposal in terms of the the schedule

40
00:12:27.070 --> 00:12:37.459
Tim Beiko: but even that basically had the clients releases come for the 1st testnet around early September.

41
00:12:37.740 --> 00:12:44.250
Tim Beiko: So I think regardless of like the specific rollout schedule that we have.

42
00:12:45.230 --> 00:12:49.153
Tim Beiko: if we want a good chance to like ship before Def connect

43
00:12:50.440 --> 00:12:59.449
Tim Beiko: If if we want a good chance to ship before Def connect, like, we should at least aim to be in a spot where we're able to start forking test nets

44
00:12:59.780 --> 00:13:06.519
Tim Beiko: at the end of August, or sorry have releases for the test notes at the end of August, maybe early September.

45
00:13:07.163 --> 00:13:21.836
Tim Beiko: and I think this also implies some decisions about the scope of the fork so, for example, you know whether or not we keep 7, 9 0, 7 in as there's been like a bunch of of complications with that vip

46
00:13:23.010 --> 00:13:27.649
Tim Beiko: But yeah, I'll pause here. I guess I'm curious to hear from fine teams, like, 1st of all.

47
00:13:27.880 --> 00:13:40.780
Tim Beiko: do you think it's, you know, a realistic timeline. That's like, yeah, if we have these releases in, say, late August, early September, then we'd be in a spot to ship in November. And then

48
00:13:40.900 --> 00:13:51.039
Tim Beiko: assuming that's correct, like, what would we need to do to get there like? Is that possible? Should we change the scope? Are there other things we should be considering if we wanted to hit that.

49
00:14:14.280 --> 00:14:19.450
Tim Beiko: Okay? So I maybe a better version of this question is if we said, we're aiming.

50
00:14:19.570 --> 00:14:26.199
Tim Beiko: Yeah, if we said we're aiming for client releases. For, say, you know, the 1st testnet

51
00:14:27.030 --> 00:14:29.280
Tim Beiko: 8 late August like.

52
00:14:29.930 --> 00:14:38.459
Tim Beiko: does any client think this is not possible? And then there's a point here around pure desk testing.

53
00:14:38.630 --> 00:14:40.129
Tim Beiko: So I don't know. Yeah.

54
00:14:41.100 --> 00:14:47.119
Tim Beiko: does anyone on the peer to side want to give some context there and like what they would see as the ideal

55
00:14:47.850 --> 00:14:49.250
Tim Beiko: testing scheduled.

56
00:14:53.800 --> 00:14:54.490
Parithosh Jayanthi: And.

57
00:14:56.330 --> 00:14:57.340
Manu: So we're going.

58
00:14:57.520 --> 00:15:05.189
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think at the very least, we're gonna need at least stable devnet 3, and no spec changes after that. Other than clarifications.

59
00:15:05.390 --> 00:15:33.909
Parithosh Jayanthi: We're going to need a large network collaborative, probably with Sunnyside labs, a non finality network Mainnet and Testnet Shadowfox, a test without get blobs, v. 2. As Dustin mentioned, and we have to run the analyses for what Bpo values. We actually want to set both on the Devnets as well, both for the test nets as well as on Mainnet, and I think this is apart from audits and having

60
00:15:34.660 --> 00:15:39.070
Parithosh Jayanthi: all the client changes pushed into branches that are mostly stable.

61
00:15:39.360 --> 00:15:47.939
Parithosh Jayanthi: at least from the testing side. This is the stuff we see, and I think the testing team also has their own list of eips, etc, that they want to test.

62
00:15:54.840 --> 00:16:07.219
Parithosh Jayanthi: So yeah, the concrete ask would be, how quickly can we get to Devnet? 3. Cause I think that's the at least 1st step where we can freeze the spec and everything else can start kicking off.

63
00:16:09.880 --> 00:16:17.910
Tim Beiko: Okay, and I guess on the El side, as I understand it, the biggest piece of work left.

64
00:16:18.610 --> 00:16:26.424
Tim Beiko: or like, I don't uncertainty with regards to Defnet 3 is Eip 7, 9 0, 7. So the code size limit increase.

65
00:16:27.770 --> 00:16:35.330
Tim Beiko: it seems like there's still many unresolved questions, and we've been looking at it for basically a month. Now, post, interrupt.

66
00:16:36.370 --> 00:16:44.619
Tim Beiko: So yeah, would it accelerate things to remove 7, 9 0, 7 from Fusaka?

67
00:16:44.930 --> 00:16:48.670
Tim Beiko: And are there other things that we could do that would accelerate.

68
00:17:00.790 --> 00:17:21.920
Justin Florentine (Besu): I think, with regard to 79.0 7, you know, dropping, it may be prudent at the time it would definitely accelerate things. And also it would not slow things down, meaning that there are additional unknowns that we are going to unearth as we start testing 7,907, and I can't see any of those speeding us up.

69
00:17:24.310 --> 00:17:27.160
marek: I agree with Justin from never mind side.

70
00:17:32.500 --> 00:17:43.690
Marius van der Wijden: I don't really want to speak for the guest team, but my feeling is also that 7, 9, 0, 7 introduces so many new edge cases, and

71
00:17:43.970 --> 00:18:04.429
Marius van der Wijden: we don't know how the future will look like regarding regarding what we do with the contract size. We only know that this mechanism will not be the final mechanism, because it just doesn't work in this way.

72
00:18:04.730 --> 00:18:19.850
Marius van der Wijden: And so I believe we should, rather rather than working on this this quick fix we should we should work on the final mechanism.

73
00:18:19.910 --> 00:18:40.980
Marius van der Wijden: Yeah, just because I I think it's just we. We still don't know yet. And I think at this point we should know. And we gave this eap and the Eap office basically 2 months to figure out whether whether we should put it whether we can figure out all of the edge cases, and

74
00:18:41.140 --> 00:18:44.329
Marius van der Wijden: in my opinion we haven't figured that out yet. So.

75
00:18:46.310 --> 00:18:46.970
Tim Beiko: Thanks.

76
00:18:47.925 --> 00:18:48.700
Tim Beiko: Roman.

77
00:18:50.032 --> 00:18:53.270
Roman: Breath's point of view is that the

78
00:18:53.570 --> 00:18:59.850
Roman: the biggest source of contention on the cap is the pricing adjustments.

79
00:19:00.110 --> 00:19:11.199
Roman: and people not feeling comfortable that this would be the the final formula for calculating the the cost of code size load. So our opinion is that

80
00:19:11.320 --> 00:19:23.730
Roman: we morph the 7 9 0 7 into the variant that was proposed during Berlin interrupt, which is a plain code size increase by

81
00:19:24.620 --> 00:19:31.470
Roman: anywhere around 25 to 50% from what it is today, and call it a day.

82
00:19:34.940 --> 00:19:36.849
Tim Beiko: Okay, Ben.

83
00:19:37.180 --> 00:19:44.519
Ben Adams: Yeah, I was gonna sort of second that one and ask if it was too late to cause. I I think

84
00:19:44.900 --> 00:19:50.460
Ben Adams: it would be a bit disappointing if we didn't have any increase in code size.

85
00:19:52.820 --> 00:19:56.750
Ben Adams: and that's a much, much simpler change.

86
00:19:58.670 --> 00:19:59.260
Tim Beiko: Right.

87
00:19:59.540 --> 00:20:01.120
Tim Beiko: I'm Derek.

88
00:20:03.160 --> 00:20:12.285
Derek Lee: Hey? So I'm Derek from representing kind of off chain lines and arbitrum specifically. We would definitely love to see an increase of any kind here.

89
00:20:12.780 --> 00:20:19.189
Derek Lee: I'm curious if to hear from folks, if the concerns kind of apply also to that modified

90
00:20:19.820 --> 00:20:25.090
Derek Lee: approach of just raising it by, you know, 50% and calling it today as Roman

91
00:20:25.860 --> 00:20:33.179
Derek Lee: described previously. And if you know the concerns, there are alleviated, or at least mitigated. This would be where we would

92
00:20:33.610 --> 00:20:36.380
Derek Lee: love to see be be implemented.

93
00:20:37.660 --> 00:20:46.029
Tim Beiko: So I guess one question I would have if for, like the naive, just raise it by 50% approach is like, how does this affect

94
00:20:46.220 --> 00:20:53.900
Tim Beiko: performance, and especially at like higher gas limits. Is this like.

95
00:20:54.140 --> 00:20:58.659
Tim Beiko: I assume there were some reasons why the the

96
00:20:59.560 --> 00:21:02.629
Tim Beiko: the limit was set this way. So like, yeah, I don't.

97
00:21:02.900 --> 00:21:04.860
Tim Beiko: But I don't have an intuition for

98
00:21:05.540 --> 00:21:09.330
Tim Beiko: what sort of wiggle room or buffer that we have. Oscar.

99
00:21:10.190 --> 00:21:22.390
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, I mean, I think part of the problem. That's also the problem with 7 97 is that we just don't have really good benchmarks. Yet on this not not not just the changes, but also just the situation today. And how that would just change with higher gas limits.

100
00:21:22.520 --> 00:21:30.290
Ansgar Dietrichs: I think, from people looking into it. I think maybe Marius has looked into it a bit, and it looked like it's not actually

101
00:21:30.950 --> 00:21:41.589
Ansgar Dietrichs: super close to being an issue right now. So like the intuition. But again, they're not yet super sustained. Intuition is that that we would have a bit of room. And so, of course.

102
00:21:41.760 --> 00:21:52.659
Ansgar Dietrichs: the very simple logic here is that the smaller the bump, the less likely that we will regret it. Basically. So I think Julius Eap right now, I can link it in chat as well, by the way.

103
00:21:52.660 --> 00:22:20.989
Ansgar Dietrichs: proposed an increase from 24 to 32, which is, of course, less than 50%. So I think the chance that that ends up being something we regret, or that blocks us from going to 100 million gas or something, I think, is very small, but of course it's also not that helpful for developers. And so the further up we would go the higher the likelihood that it becomes a binding kind of scanning constraint, but of course, also the more useful it would become.

104
00:22:22.910 --> 00:22:24.580
Tim Beiko: Perth, Charles.

105
00:22:25.780 --> 00:22:32.509
Charles (vyper): Hello! I'm 1 of the Eip authors. I wanted to point out that the concern about how much code you can load in a block

106
00:22:33.340 --> 00:22:43.589
Charles (vyper): is actually worse if you bump the code size by 30 or 50% or whatever, because for 2,600 gas, you can now load more code

107
00:22:43.880 --> 00:22:48.950
Charles (vyper): basically per unit of gas, whereas 79 0 7 is much

108
00:22:49.660 --> 00:22:54.800
Charles (vyper): more strict in terms of how much code you can load per unit of gas.

109
00:22:56.280 --> 00:22:56.860
Tim Beiko: Right?

110
00:22:59.340 --> 00:23:07.250
Tim Beiko: So I guess yeah, to Justin's comment. Like, if the reason we're doing this is to speed up Pusaka, and there's still some uncertainty.

111
00:23:07.880 --> 00:23:10.820
Tim Beiko: even with like ace, small bump

112
00:23:11.350 --> 00:23:15.040
Tim Beiko: which will take time to like test and review.

113
00:23:15.410 --> 00:23:24.280
Tim Beiko: I would lean towards just removing 7, 9 0. 7, and not changing the contract code size in this port and then figuring out like.

114
00:23:24.510 --> 00:23:28.235
Tim Beiko: quote unquote right way to do it for Amsterdam.

115
00:23:29.280 --> 00:23:32.394
Tim Beiko: it would be pretty bad if we

116
00:23:33.380 --> 00:23:36.199
Tim Beiko: if we I don't know, agreed that like a

117
00:23:36.460 --> 00:23:46.806
Tim Beiko: 30% bump or 50% bump is fine. Now and then, 2 weeks before peer dos goes, live someone highlights some dos issue that we missed.

118
00:23:48.080 --> 00:23:49.759
Tim Beiko: So yeah, I,

119
00:23:50.750 --> 00:23:58.299
Tim Beiko: it feels like we all wanted to do. 7, 9 0, 7. It's just taking longer than we expected to, so we should consider it for Amsterdam. But

120
00:23:58.500 --> 00:24:02.449
Tim Beiko: if we want to speed up Fusaka doing nothing will probably be the quickest.

121
00:24:03.330 --> 00:24:21.449
lightclient: I just wanted to say that it's not going to consider for Glamsterdam, because there's so many other things, and if we're going to quote unquote, do it correctly. It's going to be a pretty large change. And that was like what a lot of the motivation for 7, 9 0. 7 was was that it's not gonna happen for Glamsterdam. It probably won't happen after Glamsterdam.

122
00:24:21.690 --> 00:24:28.070
lightclient: So let's try and do something now, and I'm not saying that.

123
00:24:28.240 --> 00:24:35.689
lightclient: No, we've had a lot of time. It's still unclear. Maybe it's good to just take it out. But, like, if we take it out, it's not going to Glam so damp, that's almost certain.

124
00:24:38.490 --> 00:24:40.569
Tim Beiko: Because you think that like

125
00:24:40.920 --> 00:24:47.859
Tim Beiko: I don't know if we do like block access list or fossil or apbs. It'll just be too much to do this at the same time, or.

126
00:24:47.860 --> 00:24:49.710
lightclient: I mean to do it right.

127
00:24:49.820 --> 00:24:54.074
lightclient: It seems that most people think that code chunking is the right thing to do. The.

128
00:24:54.340 --> 00:24:54.980
Tim Beiko: Okay. I see.

129
00:24:54.980 --> 00:24:57.340
lightclient: Compatible thing, and that's going to be big.

130
00:24:57.660 --> 00:24:58.590
Tim Beiko: I see? Yeah, yeah.

131
00:25:00.800 --> 00:25:05.640
lightclient: And so the way I think about a lot of these changes is that coach hunking is a 5 year old proposal.

132
00:25:05.940 --> 00:25:10.910
lightclient: It seems like the right idea to do at some point in the future. But the future is uncertain.

133
00:25:11.160 --> 00:25:12.250
Tim Beiko: And.

134
00:25:13.050 --> 00:25:16.739
lightclient: You know, people really want larger coat contract foot sizes.

135
00:25:16.970 --> 00:25:19.260
lightclient: I get it. Fusaka is

136
00:25:20.260 --> 00:25:31.670
lightclient: getting delayed by these decisions now. So it's probably the right thing to do to just drop it. But like, I wanna make sure that we're clear that if we drop it, the contract website is not gonna change for potentially years.

137
00:25:33.540 --> 00:25:40.530
Tim Beiko: Thank you, Derek, and then to Derek, and then Charles.

138
00:25:40.750 --> 00:25:52.201
Derek Lee: Sh! Sure, thanks. I just wanna like huge plus one behind. What? Like client just shared. This is our concern as well, and we genuinely believe that this increase would help developers a lot

139
00:25:52.720 --> 00:26:00.239
Derek Lee: sounds like there's little to no appetite for delaying Fusaka as it is to even have some sort of or form of 7, 9 0, 7,

140
00:26:00.410 --> 00:26:06.740
Derek Lee: But we, we feel strongly that like this is a huge benefit, if we can include it to include it. Now.

141
00:26:09.880 --> 00:26:19.349
Tim Beiko: And I guess, Derek, there was a question in the chat. Do L. Two's want more blobs sooner or bigger contract sizes. So you're saying, you would rather have less blobs.

142
00:26:20.650 --> 00:26:24.700
Tim Beiko: Yeah. The the blobs coming in at a later time than this.

143
00:26:29.620 --> 00:26:30.779
Tim Beiko: Hi, potus.

144
00:26:32.000 --> 00:26:45.450
Potuz: Yeah. So I don't really understand the issue with arbitrum, but it from from the little I understand. It seems to me that what they need would be 7,907, without any changes on l. 1.

145
00:26:45.640 --> 00:26:52.389
Potuz: That would make it easier for them to maintain an increase on l. 2, which is what I suspect, what they actually need.

146
00:26:52.530 --> 00:27:01.200
Potuz: I don't understand why L. 2 s. Would actually care about increasing the current contract limits on l. 1, and if it's no changes on l 1,

147
00:27:01.510 --> 00:27:04.749
Potuz: perhaps that's doable, and that's less dangerous for us.

148
00:27:11.990 --> 00:27:36.800
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, that's always the problem with Evm equivalents, though, like, you can't really make changes on L 2. Because then, if the l 1 ever changes, which sounds like we will at some point do. Then you're basically out of sync, and then you have to find a migration path to bring the L. 2 back into sync with how the l 1 handles things, and it becomes a huge mess. So that's why generally l. 2 s. Are very, very reluctant to ever make such changes on their own.

149
00:27:44.360 --> 00:27:45.410
Tim Beiko: And Charles.

150
00:27:46.810 --> 00:28:00.750
Charles (vyper): Yeah, I wanted to point out another approach is shipping 79 0, 7, with an even smaller limit, such as it's already been reduced to 48 kB from the original 256 kB, and it could be shipped with maybe a 32 kB limit, or something like this.

151
00:28:01.020 --> 00:28:06.870
Charles (vyper): And as for shipping, 79 0 7 without increases, I think that's a little weird, because

152
00:28:07.800 --> 00:28:19.580
Charles (vyper): you don't know it's like a code path that's untested or like. It's a dead code path in production. So it might be very easy to have like consensus consensus issues.

153
00:28:21.960 --> 00:28:27.149
Tim Beiko: And would that make people feel more confident? About 7, 9, 0, 7, if we reduced it?

154
00:28:29.370 --> 00:28:30.700
Tim Beiko: The 32.

155
00:28:38.910 --> 00:28:47.690
Tim Beiko: Yeah. Okay. Roman, yeah. Romance is no, and on scar as well. Like, yeah, my sense is like like the complexity of the mechanism. That's the

156
00:28:48.220 --> 00:28:50.669
Tim Beiko: that's the main bottleneck.

157
00:28:55.490 --> 00:29:07.950
Tim Beiko: yeah. So I guess we should assume if we do remove it. You know we can obviously propose for Amsterdam, but the odds of it being accepted are uncertain. So we should be fine with.

158
00:29:08.930 --> 00:29:13.545
Tim Beiko: you know, not having it go live for some period of time.

159
00:29:14.590 --> 00:29:17.599
Tim Beiko: I guess the question is like, Yeah, do client teams

160
00:29:18.480 --> 00:29:21.005
Tim Beiko: do client teams thing that

161
00:29:21.920 --> 00:29:28.050
Tim Beiko: it's worth removing this to make sure we get the ship. Osaka slightly quicker.

162
00:29:29.310 --> 00:29:32.509
Tim Beiko: and I think Beizoo and Nethermind

163
00:29:33.280 --> 00:29:35.889
Tim Beiko: originally said they would rather drop it.

164
00:29:37.300 --> 00:29:37.990
Tim Beiko: Yeah.

165
00:29:56.646 --> 00:29:57.640
Tim Beiko: Yeah, Charles.

166
00:29:58.283 --> 00:30:07.046
Charles (vyper): Yeah, I'm kind of curious from the client teams or the leads, or whoever's opposed to this, like what exactly they would want to see in order for it to be

167
00:30:07.680 --> 00:30:08.909
Charles (vyper): okay, to go in.

168
00:30:09.200 --> 00:30:12.669
Charles (vyper): I know codecrunch has been discussed, but

169
00:30:12.900 --> 00:30:19.360
Charles (vyper): there isn't really a finalized dip, as far as I know, and if

170
00:30:19.570 --> 00:30:25.690
Charles (vyper): we know what the blockers are for this getting in, then, either for free Soccer, Glamsterdam.

171
00:30:28.100 --> 00:30:31.019
Charles (vyper): I think it would be really good to have more clarity.

172
00:30:48.690 --> 00:30:51.460
Marius van der Wijden: I think the problem is, we we don't know.

173
00:30:52.170 --> 00:30:58.855
Marius van der Wijden: like I have a list of stuff that I would like to see, and Johan has been working on it.

174
00:30:59.810 --> 00:31:06.260
Marius van der Wijden: But those are just the things that I was that I thought of, and

175
00:31:07.050 --> 00:31:10.850
Marius van der Wijden: I don't know. The more I think about it. The list grows longer and longer

176
00:31:11.250 --> 00:31:15.459
Marius van der Wijden: about edge cases. And I think

177
00:31:16.000 --> 00:31:18.980
Marius van der Wijden: my biggest argument right now is that

178
00:31:20.610 --> 00:31:23.260
Marius van der Wijden: the biggest argument that I see right now is that

179
00:31:23.380 --> 00:31:27.870
Marius van der Wijden: this mechanism is not future compatible. So we will need to change the mechanism anyway.

180
00:31:29.420 --> 00:31:30.105
Marius van der Wijden: And

181
00:31:32.700 --> 00:31:41.870
Marius van der Wijden: yeah, I don't. I don't know if we? We should enshrine this mechanism for potentially one or 2 hard folks.

182
00:31:42.180 --> 00:31:48.369
Marius van der Wijden: when we can either get the benefit with something very simple.

183
00:31:48.760 --> 00:31:52.880
Marius van der Wijden: or go for the for the full proposal. That will be future proof

184
00:31:53.320 --> 00:31:55.849
Marius van der Wijden: in in the Ck. Evm. Fold.

185
00:32:01.570 --> 00:32:09.269
Tim Beiko: Okay? I guess maybe one other data point. So Onskar asked in the chat. How people feel about it. And the emoji react.

186
00:32:09.860 --> 00:32:23.874
Tim Beiko: most of the responses would would remove it, but, like notably, it seems like pretty much. All of the testing team is in favor of removing this, I assume, due to the bandwidth it would take. And the biggest issue we have with

187
00:32:24.530 --> 00:32:29.610
Tim Beiko: tiered asses like, you know, our lack of testing and and focus on that.

188
00:32:29.820 --> 00:32:52.070
Tim Beiko: I think, based on that. I would lean towards removing it and not making another change, so that we can actually focus on on shipping period us. We can obviously have the conversation of like exactly what we want to see and which benchmarks we want for for Glamsterdam. But giving like testing is on the critical path at this point, and at least like a

189
00:32:52.280 --> 00:32:56.649
Tim Beiko: decent subset of the client. Teams or client Devs want to remove it.

190
00:32:57.000 --> 00:33:02.599
Tim Beiko: I would lean towards just removing 7, 9 0 7, not doing any variant of it in this fork. And

191
00:33:02.760 --> 00:33:09.440
Tim Beiko: yeah, trying to make sure we can move to a spec freeze and testing Fusica as quickly as possible.

192
00:33:12.910 --> 00:33:18.970
Tim Beiko: and the implication is, yes, we can re-propose this for Amsterdam, but you know it's either

193
00:33:19.160 --> 00:33:30.795
Tim Beiko: we would need to include code chunking, which, is a significant lift or you know, have some better benchmark on a simpler proposal. But there's definitely no guarantee that it would go in. So

194
00:33:33.040 --> 00:33:33.790
Tim Beiko: yeah.

195
00:33:34.670 --> 00:33:40.009
Tim Beiko: Last call. But I think we should just move forward. Remove 7, 9 0, 7 from Osaka.

196
00:33:47.340 --> 00:33:48.210
Tim Beiko: Okay?

197
00:33:49.000 --> 00:34:05.388
Tim Beiko: So we remove 7, 9, 0, 7 this changes the spec obviously for devnet 3 the other quick thing I wanted to flag in terms of the spec is that we also merge this Pr to reduce the maximum transaction size

198
00:34:07.350 --> 00:34:10.110
Tim Beiko: and then I think this is

199
00:34:13.139 --> 00:34:21.730
Tim Beiko: basically the finalish list of things for Devnet 3, and let me pull up. Barnabas shared the link a bit earlier.

200
00:34:26.130 --> 00:34:28.203
Tim Beiko: sorry I can't find the link, but

201
00:34:30.380 --> 00:34:34.664
Tim Beiko: oh, okay, I'll repost it at the bottom of the chat. That's quite far.

202
00:34:35.690 --> 00:34:37.017
Tim Beiko: Oh, thank you.

203
00:34:38.030 --> 00:34:44.190
Tim Beiko: So given this do. If we don't have 7, 9 0, 7

204
00:34:44.730 --> 00:34:49.140
Tim Beiko: and then there's some updates to pure. Das the gas in a cap

205
00:34:49.370 --> 00:34:51.500
Tim Beiko: to a couple of the eips.

206
00:34:52.350 --> 00:34:57.130
Tim Beiko: How the clients feel about timelines for Devnet 3. Is

207
00:34:57.350 --> 00:35:00.070
Tim Beiko: is it something we still think we can?

208
00:35:01.040 --> 00:35:04.859
Tim Beiko: is it something we still, we still think we can deploy next week?

209
00:35:11.170 --> 00:35:17.049
Tim Beiko: Yeah. 23rd of July that people think, is this realistic for definite 3 without 7, 9, 0, 7.

210
00:35:19.780 --> 00:35:23.790
Tim Beiko: Okay, we have some thumbs up. So we'll have at least some clients on the net. 3.

211
00:35:24.410 --> 00:35:29.045
Tim Beiko: I'm great, so let's aim for that

212
00:35:31.050 --> 00:35:35.310
Tim Beiko: And then we were kind of out of order here, but I think it's also worth

213
00:35:35.420 --> 00:35:42.449
Tim Beiko: directly talking about, like the rollout schedule for for Fusaka to make sure we're all on the same page.

214
00:35:44.170 --> 00:36:06.509
Tim Beiko: again, like when we shipped spectra. And there were these issues. We came up with this proposal, where we wanted to have 30 days, both before the 1st testnet and after after the last testnet before mainnet there's definitely been some push back on this in the coming weeks, so I think maybe a good place to start this. I know, Frederick, if you want to like.

215
00:36:06.650 --> 00:36:08.789
Tim Beiko: give a bit more context around.

216
00:36:09.180 --> 00:36:18.060
Tim Beiko: why we decided on those numbers and like, why, it's important. And then we can see if we want to stick to them or change, or if people have concerns.

217
00:36:20.050 --> 00:36:26.369
Fredrik: Yeah. So we had the Hodeshki incidents which kind of

218
00:36:27.350 --> 00:36:34.350
Fredrik: initiated this whole process to to start thinking about how we should be

219
00:36:34.480 --> 00:36:37.830
Fredrik: planning the the hard forks.

220
00:36:39.180 --> 00:36:42.470
Fredrik: The reason we picked 30 days between the

221
00:36:42.690 --> 00:36:48.910
Fredrik: clients release and the 1st testnet was basically to give enough time to have

222
00:36:50.340 --> 00:36:56.834
Fredrik: audit competitions. We wanted to have the the ability to have

223
00:36:58.270 --> 00:37:01.081
Fredrik: people reviewing the final code bases.

224
00:37:02.060 --> 00:37:04.709
Fredrik: both internally and externally. And

225
00:37:06.310 --> 00:37:09.680
Fredrik: yeah, doing it in 2 weeks is

226
00:37:10.250 --> 00:37:15.040
Fredrik: quite tight. Especially if something is found

227
00:37:15.640 --> 00:37:17.223
Fredrik: towards the end of it.

228
00:37:20.360 --> 00:37:25.977
Fredrik: So that's why we picked 30 days between. The 1st client,

229
00:37:26.860 --> 00:37:29.170
Fredrik: client release and and test that

230
00:37:30.810 --> 00:37:43.870
Fredrik: the the other thing for the 30 days between the last testnet and mainnet was basically because we wanted to be sure that we had enough time to verify that everything was actually working as intended, so that after

231
00:37:44.290 --> 00:37:49.500
Fredrik: like, if we would have done a Mainnet release 2 weeks of the last testnet, and then something

232
00:37:50.610 --> 00:37:59.209
Fredrik: didn't really pop out immediately. Then that could have effects on the main net, and, you know, potentially

233
00:38:00.150 --> 00:38:03.378
Fredrik: end up with downtime or or similar.

234
00:38:04.880 --> 00:38:08.629
Fredrik: so the reasoning is, we just want some extra

235
00:38:10.260 --> 00:38:13.850
Fredrik: security to do that. And then.

236
00:38:14.210 --> 00:38:17.319
Fredrik: as you mentioned earlier in the call. There's been other

237
00:38:18.690 --> 00:38:22.140
Fredrik: l twos and such. That's also expressed

238
00:38:23.310 --> 00:38:29.020
Fredrik: a desire to have 30 days so that they can have enough time to implement

239
00:38:29.150 --> 00:38:32.150
Fredrik: stuff on their side for the hard forks.

240
00:38:36.970 --> 00:38:44.210
Tim Beiko: Thank you. One question I think this raises is, what's the level of

241
00:38:45.870 --> 00:38:52.280
Tim Beiko: finality that we want on the test net releases? Because obviously, if we assume that

242
00:38:52.630 --> 00:38:57.340
Tim Beiko: we want the test net releases to be as close as possible to the main net release, then

243
00:38:57.530 --> 00:39:14.523
Tim Beiko: we should almost, you know, have a much higher bar for that, and then assume that like, maybe the path between the last testnet and mainnet is is a bit shorter. On the other hand, if we assume that maybe it's fine. If the 1st testnet release is not

244
00:39:15.250 --> 00:39:26.829
Tim Beiko: as a final, let's say the the main net. Release it. It may be fine to have a bit less time between like that release and and the test net, because we're still testing

245
00:39:28.120 --> 00:39:36.160
Fredrik: I think it depends a bit on how we see the test notes. Like, if we're okay with them breaking like it happened in Lasky. Then I think that's

246
00:39:36.820 --> 00:39:42.049
Fredrik: I mean we could shorten the time. We could probably do 2 weeks if that's the case.

247
00:39:42.190 --> 00:39:47.009
Fredrik: because if if it ends up breaking, and we don't really

248
00:39:47.990 --> 00:39:50.949
Fredrik: worry too much about that on the testnet. Then

249
00:39:52.520 --> 00:40:00.040
Fredrik: that seems like a reasonable timeframe. But if we want to ensure that the test nets are up and running, and we don't have the same

250
00:40:00.250 --> 00:40:01.720
Fredrik: incidents.

251
00:40:01.720 --> 00:40:05.459
Parithosh Jayanthi: We got from the community. He says that we're not supposed to break test nets.

252
00:40:06.090 --> 00:40:13.460
Fredrik: Yeah, yeah, that's so. In that case we should we? We should be

253
00:40:14.340 --> 00:40:19.164
Fredrik: doing our best to to minimize that that risk.

254
00:40:24.350 --> 00:40:29.120
Fredrik: I mean from from change point of view. I will

255
00:40:30.220 --> 00:40:33.050
Fredrik: like when we've done these audits and the

256
00:40:33.760 --> 00:40:40.830
Fredrik: competitions in the past, there's been findings, and we obviously clients

257
00:40:41.030 --> 00:40:51.064
Fredrik: are updating. But I would expect that there aren't like massive changes between the release candidate and the the 1st testnet. But it's primarily things like.

258
00:40:53.090 --> 00:40:54.440
Fredrik: yeah, fixes.

259
00:40:57.760 --> 00:41:05.520
Tim Beiko: Right? So I guess, like, yes, the the bounding constraint is almost like, when do we want to have a client release that's ready for like

260
00:41:05.900 --> 00:41:08.212
Tim Beiko: a proper security review

261
00:41:09.110 --> 00:41:15.991
Tim Beiko: And then we assume that some clients will have some bugs through that process.

262
00:41:16.570 --> 00:41:20.015
Tim Beiko: and obviously we don't want that to happen on Mainnet

263
00:41:24.120 --> 00:41:31.050
Tim Beiko: and I guess, and and so I guess I guess the maybe the difference here is like you

264
00:41:31.470 --> 00:41:34.690
Tim Beiko: you want to release. That's like stable. And you know.

265
00:41:35.400 --> 00:41:38.973
Tim Beiko: you think works for the 1st testnets. But

266
00:41:40.400 --> 00:41:43.220
Tim Beiko: but you also want time to like get bugs. So

267
00:41:43.390 --> 00:41:47.620
Tim Beiko: like, why should should we just start basically the

268
00:41:48.240 --> 00:42:00.669
Tim Beiko: should, should we basically just start the security reviews on the 1st testnet release? Would that like buy us some time? And then if if we find some like weird edge case.

269
00:42:02.110 --> 00:42:07.260
Tim Beiko: hopefully, it doesn't bring down an entire test net, but the

270
00:42:08.090 --> 00:42:13.090
Tim Beiko: yeah, like the the issues we found on ho! On like Holeski last time. We're not

271
00:42:14.066 --> 00:42:15.679
Tim Beiko: like security.

272
00:42:16.393 --> 00:42:27.366
Tim Beiko: We're we're not outcomes of the security reviews. They were more like configuration issues. Whereas, as I understand it, a lot of the Security Review stuff found, you know, pretty

273
00:42:28.218 --> 00:42:35.144
Tim Beiko: pretty unique edge cases that would require some amount of like ingenuity to to exploit.

274
00:42:37.570 --> 00:42:53.869
Tim Beiko: yeah, so is it. Is it reasonable to say, like, we have to, perhaps a shorter path to the test nets. We assume the releases on the test. Nets are stable. We then do like a thorough security review of them, and we want to have a longish period of time for that. Before we actually have the main net release.

275
00:42:59.020 --> 00:43:04.320
Fredrik: I mean it will. It will increase the risk of something happening on on the testnets.

276
00:43:05.820 --> 00:43:10.839
Fredrik: I mean, that's that's the only thing. Like, yeah, there. There were

277
00:43:11.300 --> 00:43:14.837
Fredrik: consensus issues and other things that were found.

278
00:43:15.770 --> 00:43:23.169
Fredrik: I don't know about the likelihood of someone exploiting that on testnets to to cause issues, etcetera. But

279
00:43:23.780 --> 00:43:26.350
Fredrik: obviously things can be found that could

280
00:43:27.886 --> 00:43:31.013
Fredrik: have an impact on the test nets.

281
00:43:33.320 --> 00:43:37.424
Tim Beiko: Yeah, yeah, obviously, you know, you don't have a hundred percent certainty. But

282
00:43:38.580 --> 00:43:45.479
Fredrik: I mean, the idea would be that we start the audit competition on the on the day that the

283
00:43:45.860 --> 00:43:56.260
Fredrik: clients have a release candidate for the 1st testnet out, and that's the current plan and probably run it for 4 weeks.

284
00:43:57.091 --> 00:44:07.358
Fredrik: Obviously, that could work. Still, if the test net is launched after 2 weeks. It just means that there will be a 2 week period where the competition is still running.

285
00:44:07.940 --> 00:44:14.579
Fredrik: so people will have time to find issues. The kind of barred thing here is that these changes are

286
00:44:14.870 --> 00:44:17.150
Fredrik: quite complex. It usually takes

287
00:44:18.220 --> 00:44:23.250
Fredrik: a few weeks for people to kind of wrap their head around the changes and and

288
00:44:24.360 --> 00:44:26.024
Fredrik: start finding issues.

289
00:44:27.380 --> 00:44:28.720
Fredrik: But again, if it's.

290
00:44:31.160 --> 00:44:48.623
Tim Beiko: Is there a way? Can we just announce it before? So like, I imagine that you know, in the 2 weeks before the competition starts. Clients have code that's like pretty close to what will be in their final releases. Obviously, they might still be fixing some issues.

291
00:44:49.450 --> 00:44:51.530
Tim Beiko: but in a way, it's like, yeah, could you

292
00:44:52.440 --> 00:44:57.649
Tim Beiko: could you get people to start reviewing? And then the, you know this sort of

293
00:44:58.790 --> 00:45:08.438
Tim Beiko: previous release with the expectation that's like, only the test net releases in scope for the bug bounty. Because obviously, if they're fixing bugs before the like test net release

294
00:45:08.920 --> 00:45:16.233
Fredrik: Yeah, I mean the the announcement about the competition and guides and stuff will be released earlier.

295
00:45:18.320 --> 00:45:22.789
Fredrik: so some people would probably do it. The other thing that we're doing is that

296
00:45:23.290 --> 00:45:30.270
Fredrik: we're opening up the bug bounty program ahead of time. Once things are seen as ready. So

297
00:45:30.700 --> 00:45:44.330
Fredrik: once the spec is finalized, for example, that that will be in scope of the bug bounty program. Once Client X has completed their implementation of the feature Y, then that will be in scope.

298
00:45:44.640 --> 00:45:46.489
Fredrik: So that will be updated

299
00:45:47.518 --> 00:45:58.269
Fredrik: and so we will have quite a few features in the bug bounty program ahead of the 1st official client release, so that I think that would help so

300
00:45:58.510 --> 00:46:02.590
Fredrik: helped with finding issues. Early on.

301
00:46:04.750 --> 00:46:08.600
Tim Beiko: Okay, yeah. I see, Soyuz said. It's up for a while.

302
00:46:09.070 --> 00:46:21.290
saulius: Yeah. So I already wrote that on on the chat, but wanted to raise this that. I think we have a quite unique situation with with the test nets. Now, with which is

303
00:46:21.780 --> 00:46:29.709
saulius: you kind of still fully functioning, but at the same time is going to be sunset

304
00:46:29.990 --> 00:46:32.490
saulius: quite soon. So so my

305
00:46:32.800 --> 00:46:53.009
saulius: my idea would be. Maybe it really makes sense to try to to do a holistic upgrade as as fast as soon as possible, and you know, if I mean it, it will. It will be a very good indication how

306
00:46:53.090 --> 00:47:09.530
saulius: ready we are for for the serious deployment of Osaka. So I mean, if if something not good happens, then well, anyway, that the this test net is going to be to sunset quite soon.

307
00:47:10.800 --> 00:47:22.429
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I I think it makes sense like we, you know, we should definitely deploy the wholeshki and see if there's any issues. I don't know if we even need to treat it as like a public test that like we can

308
00:47:22.760 --> 00:47:32.776
Tim Beiko: like, I mean, if we need like a full announcement, and all of that given. There's not that many users. But the yeah. The timeline could be quite, quite quick here.

309
00:47:33.820 --> 00:47:35.480
Tim Beiko: I guess the the one thing.

310
00:47:35.710 --> 00:47:38.499
Tim Beiko: none of this kind of changes is like, yeah.

311
00:47:38.810 --> 00:47:43.769
Tim Beiko: to the extent we want to do a lot of testing potentially an extra test net.

312
00:47:44.620 --> 00:47:54.310
Tim Beiko: I think it means we. We have to have the client releases for the 1st test that's out. Sometime late August, early

313
00:47:54.670 --> 00:47:56.380
Tim Beiko: early September.

314
00:47:58.230 --> 00:48:03.092
Tim Beiko: Is this like somewhat realistic if we freeze the scope now.

315
00:48:04.920 --> 00:48:06.939
Tim Beiko: and what do we need to do.

316
00:48:07.100 --> 00:48:16.767
Tim Beiko: you know, in the meantime, to to make this happen? Because there's a lot we can chat about the specifics of Peer Das on on next week's call, too. But

317
00:48:17.760 --> 00:48:22.700
Tim Beiko: Is that just the the main thing is focusing on pure Das testing

318
00:48:24.120 --> 00:48:26.960
Tim Beiko: is there anything else specifically on the El side that

319
00:48:28.000 --> 00:48:31.060
Tim Beiko: we should be doing over the next month or 2?

320
00:48:43.940 --> 00:48:50.392
Tim Beiko: Okay, so this seems to be mostly a Cl testing thing, and on the El we removed the most problematic eat.

321
00:48:50.930 --> 00:48:52.160
Tim Beiko: so I think we can.

322
00:48:53.000 --> 00:48:58.939
Tim Beiko: We can wrap this up. We don't have to obviously set the dates today. That wasn't quite the intention, but more to like highlight that

323
00:48:59.410 --> 00:49:16.656
Tim Beiko: pretty much independent of the specifics of like the the ordering of test nets and whatnot. If we want to ship sometime in November, then we have about a month and a half to 2 months to get to a spot where we're forking the test nets. And that should be

324
00:49:17.120 --> 00:49:18.510
Tim Beiko: How we're thinking about it.

325
00:49:22.510 --> 00:49:27.580
Tim Beiko: Anything else on Fusaka that people wanted to discuss.

326
00:49:35.610 --> 00:49:39.010
Tim Beiko: Okay, then, next up at Amsterdam. So

327
00:49:39.697 --> 00:49:59.180
Tim Beiko: we agreed last time that the next 2 calls on the El side. Following this one would be the calls where we where we try to figure out the headliner for Glamsterdam. Most, if not all, of the client teams have shared their preferences in the past in the past week or so.

328
00:49:59.911 --> 00:50:07.420
Tim Beiko: So I think it might be helpful to get at least on the El side, an overview of the different teams.

329
00:50:07.934 --> 00:50:14.800
Tim Beiko: And then try to highlight like, okay for the most likely headliners. What do we want to figure out in the next couple of weeks.

330
00:50:16.070 --> 00:50:32.997
Tim Beiko: block, level access list and fossil seem like the 2 biggest ones that have come up repeatedly. Obviously, Pbs is, is quite popular. But I think that's been, or that's obviously mostly a Cl thing. So we we don't have to focus on this too much here.

331
00:50:34.130 --> 00:50:40.162
Tim Beiko: but yeah, I guess from the different el teams it would be good to hear like, what do you think?

332
00:50:41.690 --> 00:50:44.449
Tim Beiko: Oh, and and sorry, Potus. I don't mean that like

333
00:50:46.050 --> 00:50:52.390
Tim Beiko: I don't mean that epbs should not be the headliner, but more that like it's mostly a

334
00:50:52.800 --> 00:50:55.389
Tim Beiko: Cl. EIP. And I don't think there's

335
00:50:55.810 --> 00:50:58.239
Tim Beiko: any work on the El, so

336
00:50:58.771 --> 00:51:04.919
Tim Beiko: I want to make sure that, like we zoom into the preferences on the el side. Yeah.

337
00:51:06.430 --> 00:51:12.639
Tim Beiko: And then next week, obviously, we can discuss Dbbs in depth on the on the Cl call.

338
00:51:15.940 --> 00:51:22.470
Tim Beiko: But yes, the 2 that come up consistently are block level access list and fossil on the outside.

339
00:51:25.350 --> 00:51:28.099
Tim Beiko: And yeah, I guess it would be good to hear from different teams like.

340
00:51:28.470 --> 00:51:49.378
Tim Beiko: why do you feel this way about headliners? And then, if there's uncertainty or things that they still want to figure out, what are those, and how can we answer them in the next in the next month or so? Are there specific people that we want to weigh in parts of the community? Are there some other discussions we should have or schedule.

341
00:51:51.390 --> 00:51:52.170
Tim Beiko: yeah.

342
00:51:54.740 --> 00:51:55.840
Tim Beiko: And Ben.

343
00:51:56.570 --> 00:52:04.370
Ben Adams: Yeah. Block level access list is the most aligned to the strategic focus of Amsterdam.

344
00:52:05.101 --> 00:52:07.629
Ben Adams: In terms of scanning the other one.

345
00:52:12.810 --> 00:52:15.370
Tim Beiko: Okay, thank you. Hi, everyone.

346
00:52:16.960 --> 00:52:24.750
Roman: One thing that I would like to be figured out additionally for a block level access list, if

347
00:52:25.160 --> 00:52:30.740
Roman: it is possible not to keep them around for a long time.

348
00:52:31.140 --> 00:52:35.400
Roman: like for for clients, just to use it for

349
00:52:36.660 --> 00:52:40.659
Roman: a month or 2, or worth of recent blocks.

350
00:52:41.520 --> 00:52:45.020
Roman: because otherwise it just still data that.

351
00:52:45.470 --> 00:52:48.530
Tim Beiko: You mean, like, we could prove them like the blobs, basically.

352
00:52:48.530 --> 00:52:49.650
Roman: Yes, yes, exactly.

353
00:52:49.650 --> 00:52:51.080
Tim Beiko: Okay, yeah.

354
00:52:54.090 --> 00:52:59.979
Tim Beiko: does anyone have like a quick take on that or otherwise, we can sort this out, I think. But it is an important question.

355
00:52:59.980 --> 00:53:07.069
Ben Adams: Yeah, if we if we maintain a block level access list as route in some way.

356
00:53:07.845 --> 00:53:14.149
Ben Adams: then it can always be. They can always be rebuilt by rerunning the block, so, therefore, they could be joined.

357
00:53:16.260 --> 00:53:16.810
Tim Beiko: Okay.

358
00:53:17.080 --> 00:53:19.449
Justin Florentine (Besu): Do we think that history expiry covers this.

359
00:53:22.540 --> 00:53:30.260
Tim Beiko: It's a different time scale, though. Right like history. Expiry like now, is pre merge. And maybe we'll get to like a rolling window. But we're not there yet, so I.

360
00:53:30.260 --> 00:53:33.060
Justin Florentine (Besu): That's specifically what I mean is the rolling window.

361
00:53:35.440 --> 00:53:58.270
Łukasz Rozmej: So you can think of keeping block access list in the history if you want to keep them forever. Anyway, it would be equivalent of keeping archive note in history, right? In a way. So basically, you're running an archive note from the point of block access list being added. So I'm also for trimming it.

362
00:54:04.895 --> 00:54:05.590
Tim Beiko: Andre.

363
00:54:07.670 --> 00:54:12.399
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, I just wanted to to. Highlight said that in chat that I think

364
00:54:12.660 --> 00:54:26.810
Ansgar Dietrichs: if we, to the extent that we agree that scaling is the kind of the theme on the El side for Glam Saddam, which I think I mean fossil, is a bit of a special topic. We can talk a bit about fossil. But but other than that, I think people broadly seem to roughly agree on this.

365
00:54:26.810 --> 00:54:52.819
Ansgar Dietrichs: and then I think headliners, in a sense, are less of a clear cut fit on the El side. Yes, I think buckler boxes list. We decided to make it a headliner. Maybe it can be a combined headliner with something on the Cl side or so. But I think that's a bit more of a stand-in. It's clearly a smaller feature. I think it's going to be great for scaling, but I think even more crucial through scaling on the L side will be repricing like you can imagine if we ship just buglar boxes list. But we don't change the price relative to say data.

366
00:54:52.820 --> 00:55:17.879
Ansgar Dietrichs: and then we can't scale more at all. It won't give us any more headroom, because bulk level access don't help with data. Right? So basically, now, data would just be the bottleneck. So clearly, block level access already needs to come with some sort of repricing to even make any use of it for scaling. But more so, I think basically, there needs to be like this broad repricing effort. And there's already a lot of work ongoing on this. But across compute across state, across data that also requires a lot of

367
00:55:17.880 --> 00:55:22.839
Ansgar Dietrichs: much more rigorous benchmarking. All of this is ramping up in the background. But I think

368
00:55:22.890 --> 00:55:42.380
Ansgar Dietrichs: the headliners here really are not the ideal instrument to express that, because if I think about what in my mind would make it worth delaying. Gram Saddam. In a way I wouldn't even care about block love access list if that for some reason takes more time. We can always push it like we could not ship Glam Saddam without repricings, because otherwise we're basically just completely capped in terms of scaling, so just wanted to say.

369
00:55:42.833 --> 00:55:48.370
Ansgar Dietrichs: repricing is obviously not a headliner, but it's, I think, to me, at the very core of scaling on the alpha.

370
00:55:50.900 --> 00:55:51.820
Tim Beiko: Great. Thank you.

371
00:55:52.150 --> 00:55:53.450
Tim Beiko: Hi, Justin.

372
00:55:53.940 --> 00:56:19.810
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, I think I want to challenge a little bit of what Anskar said with regard to having different headliners for the El and the Cl. I'm not sure that's a thematic approach we want to take. There will inherently be conflicts there, you know. We think that censorship resistance is perfectly fine for a headlining theme across both layers and still accommodates pursuing scale via block access lists.

373
00:56:20.334 --> 00:56:41.239
Justin Florentine (Besu): You know, and there are a number of scaling improvements that you get with things like epbs. So you know, I would want us to think a little bit more deeply about having split themes and split headline intents, if you will, across the different layers.

374
00:56:41.880 --> 00:57:09.269
Justin Florentine (Besu): I don't think that these are mutually exclusive, and I also think that maybe we should take a deeper look over the next week. With regard to some of these code chunking ideas as well, I know that we are planning 2 weeks to consider headliners, and if the contract size thing remains an issue that folks are concerned about. Since it's being dropped, then we should accommodate that.

375
00:57:11.600 --> 00:57:19.759
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I guess one question. Yeah, maybe answer question is, you say you don't want 2 headliners. But then you say you want Epvs and fossil.

376
00:57:19.760 --> 00:57:26.120
Justin Florentine (Besu): No, no, I said, I didn't want 2 themes, and to me epbs and fossil are very much the same theme.

377
00:57:27.660 --> 00:57:28.260
Tim Beiko: Okay.

378
00:57:30.415 --> 00:57:31.200
Tim Beiko: Roman.

379
00:57:32.470 --> 00:57:35.020
Roman: Yeah, I wanted to voice

380
00:57:35.720 --> 00:57:54.910
Roman: support for Ansker said. In our view on Glomsterdam headliners. We mentioned that having balls as a headliner for El is a little bit underwhelming because it is a high impact change, but

381
00:57:55.160 --> 00:58:05.169
Roman: it feels like it requires much less work than then. The the headline bar.

382
00:58:05.340 --> 00:58:09.490
Roman: so we would like to see something else.

383
00:58:09.640 --> 00:58:16.440
Roman: the bundled alongside balls on on the execution layer, and maybe, I guess where pricing is that.

384
00:58:20.100 --> 00:58:30.119
Tim Beiko: Yeah. And obviously, we can do more eips between that. But I think it's important to say, like, Yeah, this is like the main thing. And it's true that access block access lists are

385
00:58:30.350 --> 00:58:36.020
Tim Beiko: maybe not as like they're clearly not as big as something like epbs. Yeah.

386
00:58:37.810 --> 00:58:40.880
Tim Beiko: And let's do Justin. And then Ben.

387
00:58:46.257 --> 00:58:49.829
Ben Adams: Yeah, I I just like to to highlight. Well, one

388
00:58:50.250 --> 00:59:01.200
Ben Adams: block level access list by itself isn't necessarily that big. But making use of it and doing parallelism, doing improved syncing, it becomes bigger.

389
00:59:02.539 --> 00:59:21.310
Ben Adams: However, even though it's Cl, I'd I'd like to highlight, you know, epbs and variants like it are quite important, because all of all of the El changes essentially, you know, from fossil to bowls to even resource repricing

390
00:59:21.420 --> 00:59:24.000
Ben Adams: would all imply larger blocks.

391
00:59:24.310 --> 00:59:27.459
Ben Adams: So yeah, there we go.

392
00:59:28.780 --> 00:59:29.370
Tim Beiko: Thanks.

393
00:59:29.580 --> 00:59:44.019
Łukasz Rozmej: 1 1 thing about pulse, if I can chime in, is that Camille was doing some testing on the Bloatnet State Bloatnet, and at some point with very big state

394
00:59:44.060 --> 00:59:54.359
Łukasz Rozmej: and head blocks are very like they were modifying the state, using all the gas to modify the state

395
00:59:54.390 --> 01:00:17.809
Łukasz Rozmej: at some point. I don't know the exact details. Clients started to have problems with healing when they were syncing, because each block would change the tree so much that they had problems with healing, and the balls would help here definitely, because all that data would have to be discovered. It could be just taken from the access list.

396
01:00:18.230 --> 01:00:31.319
Łukasz Rozmej: So there's a like a scaling limit with snap sync healing, which we will potentially hit at some point at least at the edge case. And this could be a remedy.

397
01:00:42.410 --> 01:00:43.270
Tim Beiko: Okay,

398
01:00:45.690 --> 01:00:59.370
Tim Beiko: So I guess. Yeah. 1 1 thing that, the block access list needs is just like, yeah, more research. After dropping them, we should figure out if we do want like a code chunking or

399
01:01:00.170 --> 01:01:09.049
Tim Beiko: if if we do want like a code chunking or re contractor pricing headliner proposal. This is something that

400
01:01:09.210 --> 01:01:14.869
Tim Beiko: someone should put together in the next 2 weeks. We are already past the headline and deadline. But if

401
01:01:15.575 --> 01:01:21.959
Tim Beiko: yeah, if court does feel this is important, then we definitely need someone to like own that

402
01:01:23.920 --> 01:01:25.810
Tim Beiko: does anyone want to volunteer for this.

403
01:01:32.090 --> 01:01:40.070
Justin Florentine (Besu): So I asked this question in chat, and it was a little bit crickets of a response. But can anyone post links to the current

404
01:01:40.610 --> 01:01:45.309
Justin Florentine (Besu): code, chunking designs, if any. I think that's gonna inform whether or not this is even

405
01:01:45.460 --> 01:01:48.650
Justin Florentine (Besu): a viable to eip.

406
01:01:59.830 --> 01:02:00.390
Tim Beiko: Okay.

407
01:02:06.480 --> 01:02:18.430
Tim Beiko: okay, this is coming by Sophia saying that like for Zkvm in terms of scaling the the hard requirements, or either epbs or delayed execution in Amsterdam.

408
01:02:21.700 --> 01:02:32.439
Tim Beiko: I guess. Okay. So we heard, actually, yeah. Aragon, I think, has, like some fairly different opinions from other teams on the headliners. I don't know if anyone from Aragon wants to give their perspective. There.

409
01:02:38.580 --> 01:02:46.250
Som - Erigon: Well on the Cl. Side. We still think epbs is going to be

410
01:02:47.340 --> 01:02:55.629
Som - Erigon: a little bit controversial from decentralization point of view. But that's like a debate. But from El side it's clear to us that

411
01:02:56.010 --> 01:03:03.090
Som - Erigon: block level access lists are going to be the kind of headliner, and of course.

412
01:03:03.260 --> 01:03:09.309
Som - Erigon: just implementing the specs of it is not the end of the game. You'd also have to

413
01:03:09.460 --> 01:03:16.000
Som - Erigon: supplement that with implementations of parallel execution that supports it.

414
01:03:17.465 --> 01:03:19.779
Som - Erigon: So we'll be focusing on that

415
01:03:20.170 --> 01:03:24.390
Som - Erigon: as the headliner. Of course there are going to be, and I expect them to be

416
01:03:24.630 --> 01:03:31.859
Som - Erigon: more eips, supplementing, scaling, and other targets that we have.

417
01:03:54.460 --> 01:03:58.050
Tim Beiko: Okay, do any of the client teams

418
01:04:00.810 --> 01:04:06.579
Tim Beiko: have other opinions they want to share. I I we kind of didn't go through the list. That's super cleanly. But

419
01:04:07.630 --> 01:04:15.219
Tim Beiko: yeah, any other teams have strong opinion.

420
01:04:21.670 --> 01:04:26.079
Tim Beiko: Okay? Actually, yeah. Andgar has a question in the chat around fossil. So I think

421
01:04:26.260 --> 01:04:29.130
Tim Beiko: fossil is a bit of a

422
01:04:29.570 --> 01:04:33.245
Tim Beiko: tricky one where it's it's not clear.

423
01:04:33.890 --> 01:04:38.659
Tim Beiko: if it's an El or cl topic, it obviously involves both. I think it's something that

424
01:04:38.800 --> 01:04:42.530
Tim Beiko: a good chunk of the teams felt was like, if not a

425
01:04:42.700 --> 01:04:49.639
Tim Beiko: like number one priority, at least something that should be like considered as a stretch goal or for the next fork.

426
01:04:50.770 --> 01:04:51.780
Tim Beiko: I

427
01:04:53.187 --> 01:04:59.799
Tim Beiko: my vibe space intuition here is that like combining it with, say, Epvs in a single fork is

428
01:05:00.490 --> 01:05:09.570
Tim Beiko: probably too much. But what? Yeah, how the client teams think about this, like the relationship between

429
01:05:09.680 --> 01:05:18.019
Tim Beiko: fossil epbs and potentially some of the other el vips around scaling like block access to the survey pricing.

430
01:05:25.740 --> 01:05:29.380
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I'm on, not Roman.

431
01:05:30.410 --> 01:05:41.200
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: Yeah. So the Nethermind team feels that fossil should only be implemented after or alongside epbs.

432
01:05:42.860 --> 01:06:06.049
Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind: as like doing the restructuring and the bandwidth expansion does is kind of a prerequisite kind of like, not really prerequisite, but like it makes more sense to do the restructuring and bandwidth expansion before implementing fossil and and balls as well.

433
01:06:09.840 --> 01:06:11.500
Tim Beiko: Okay. Everyone.

434
01:06:17.070 --> 01:06:25.689
Roman: I just wanted to say that on, we wanted to put fossil as a strategy goal, and

435
01:06:25.800 --> 01:06:30.840
Roman: it is upon Cl teams to evaluate how?

436
01:06:31.000 --> 01:06:41.249
Roman: Yeah, whether they can fit both epbs and and fossil within within the same fork, and whether it's feasible for for us to ship both.

437
01:06:48.950 --> 01:06:50.279
Tim Beiko: Oh, yeah, pull this.

438
01:06:50.740 --> 01:06:56.220
Potuz: I wanted to mention. If the discussion is about like how these cips interact.

439
01:06:56.360 --> 01:07:06.409
Potuz: I think it should be very clear. I think it is clear. But let's just explicitly state it. But block level access list and epbs don't even talk to each other.

440
01:07:06.700 --> 01:07:31.689
Potuz: I don't really care how balls are implemented. I want to touch that code, and no one from the El cares about how epbs is implemented. We can code this in parallel. They don't talk to each other. The one thing that touches both sides is fossil and fossil is heavy on the Cl. Not on the El. It shouldn't have even been mentioned as an El headliner. It's minor on the El side. It's heavier on the Cl. Side.

441
01:07:31.870 --> 01:07:33.509
Potuz: Having said so.

442
01:07:33.740 --> 01:07:53.520
Potuz: my personal opinion is what Barnabas said early on the call, we can easily. Now it seems that there's broad support. We could easily agree on trying to schedule for bolts and epbs, and actually, Cfi fossil that has broad support. I personally believe that it's doable.

443
01:07:53.640 --> 01:07:57.109
Potuz: I'm not sure if it's doable, but I believe it to be true.

444
01:07:57.330 --> 01:08:01.890
Potuz: That's going to take time after rebasing and actually looking at implementations.

445
01:08:02.660 --> 01:08:16.379
Tim Beiko: Yeah. And yeah, I, I definitely agree with that. Like the the block access list, conversation is is like, pretty separate from Epbs. It matters. Obviously whether or not we do Eps in the grand scheme of things. And then.

446
01:08:16.500 --> 01:08:20.540
Tim Beiko: yes, fossil does feel big enough that there's high uncertainty

447
01:08:20.640 --> 01:08:30.199
Tim Beiko: whether this could all be like bundled in a single fork. So we can have that conversation, maybe in more depth on the on the

448
01:08:30.410 --> 01:08:37.940
Tim Beiko: the alcohol next week, at the very least, we should agree on a prioritization between them. But I think.

449
01:08:38.439 --> 01:08:41.109
Tim Beiko: like, yeah, we should. We? We need to decide like, okay.

450
01:08:41.510 --> 01:08:43.819
Tim Beiko: if we had to choose between these 2.

451
01:08:44.220 --> 01:08:51.794
Tim Beiko: Which one are we gonna ship? And you know, from the client teams? Perspective. So far, it seems like epbs is the bigger priority.

452
01:08:52.649 --> 01:09:00.949
Tim Beiko: but and maybe the solution there is like, yeah, fossil is just like a vanilla eip. It's not necessarily a headliner, but I it does feel

453
01:09:03.229 --> 01:09:10.050
Tim Beiko: it. It. It does feel like fossil is big enough that it it. It warrants like that level in.

454
01:09:10.160 --> 01:09:12.009
Tim Beiko: Historically, we've just been

455
01:09:12.660 --> 01:09:18.780
Tim Beiko: very bad at trying to do 2 big changes on one layer at the same time, and maybe we should just like

456
01:09:19.300 --> 01:09:29.907
Tim Beiko: ship epbs as soon as we can ship. You know block access list, or repricing or whatnot as soon as we can, and then, you know, have fossil in the next work, if that's what people feel strongly about

457
01:09:31.069 --> 01:09:34.930
Tim Beiko: but we can have that conversation, I guess, on the Cl call next week.

458
01:09:35.470 --> 01:09:42.250
Tim Beiko: Maybe one other thing I would like to look into is this idea around like

459
01:09:42.550 --> 01:09:48.209
Tim Beiko: scaling as a headliner and block access lists and repricing being maybe, like

460
01:09:48.716 --> 01:09:52.183
Tim Beiko: you know, only components to it on the el side.

461
01:09:52.729 --> 01:09:55.660
Tim Beiko: we get yeah. Tomorrow, if you want to go, we can

462
01:09:56.100 --> 01:09:58.400
Tim Beiko: do your fossil comments, and then.

463
01:09:58.630 --> 01:10:02.779
thomasthiery: A bit about fossil, but more generally, I don't really understand the

464
01:10:02.980 --> 01:10:06.699
thomasthiery: sort of policy around not being able to submit

465
01:10:06.920 --> 01:10:31.459
thomasthiery: a headliner as a vanilla aip. It feels like, yeah, maybe people agree that. For so, for example, is too big for being like a vanilla IP, but like generally, I don't think like the rule is like a good one, just because it's basically your headliner. If you took the time to go on like if magicians and write to post about it, but like it doesn't inform anything

466
01:10:32.058 --> 01:10:39.060
thomasthiery: about the like. The complexity of implementing it, or how well it fits with other eips or anything else.

467
01:10:39.780 --> 01:10:48.480
Tim Beiko: I think I think most headliners are actually quite complex. And yeah, maybe some of them are like on the line. And this is the 1st time we do this. So it's a bit, you know.

468
01:10:48.690 --> 01:11:08.643
Tim Beiko: there's like some uncertainty block access list to me feels more like that where it's like, yeah, it's like a big vip. But it's, you know, if you compare it to things, we've historically centered forks around like whether it's 4, 8, 4, 4 or pure dos. Or, you know, 1559, like, it's block access list feels like much smaller.

469
01:11:09.110 --> 01:11:25.009
Tim Beiko: and yeah, I don't know. Maybe fossil is right at the limit where it's like a small headliner or a big vip. And it's it's a tricky edge case. But then, if you look at something like, you know. Epbs, then that's clearly big enough that, like

470
01:11:25.290 --> 01:11:32.812
Tim Beiko: we, we can't do like epbs and say shorter slot times in a single fork like both of those are pretty huge. And

471
01:11:33.570 --> 01:11:52.580
Tim Beiko: yeah, historically, we would just waste more time trying to merge them than to to like do one after the other. So I think it's important to all agree, like, what is the most important thing we want in this hard fork potentially, those things are separate on the layers because they don't interact. So I think it's fine to have a headliner

472
01:11:52.580 --> 01:12:04.613
Tim Beiko: per layer. We don't necessarily need to. But saying, like, you know, Epvs is the most important thing on the Cl, and then block access list or something else, is the most important thing on the El

473
01:12:04.990 --> 01:12:14.609
Tim Beiko: and they really don't interact. That seems reasonable. But I I really want, like, we need to make a decision about what our actual priority is

474
01:12:15.100 --> 01:12:20.929
Tim Beiko: and then export and then sorry when I say, I guess the answer's comment is, you know.

475
01:12:22.000 --> 01:12:32.261
Tim Beiko: part of this is also, when do we want the fork to ship like to the extent we want to have quicker forks, which is something that's come up a lot in the past. Then we should just reduce the scope as much as possible.

476
01:12:33.770 --> 01:12:35.690
Tim Beiko: yeah, Ben.

477
01:12:37.012 --> 01:12:53.129
Ben Adams: I think what you said of like a a matter. Maybe a Meta eip would make sense where we put block level access lists in there. But there, there are many other things we already know that we want to do. So some additional repricings on

478
01:12:53.500 --> 01:13:00.550
Ben Adams: he compiles, and all that sort of stuff, and they would all fit under that same rocket.

479
01:13:03.360 --> 01:13:04.439
Tim Beiko: I mean Tony.

480
01:13:05.980 --> 01:13:16.020
Toni Wahrstaetter: Yeah, I just wanted to add that I wouldn't underestimate the work that has to go into block of accesses, because, of course, the in protocol implementation might be

481
01:13:16.639 --> 01:13:18.599
Toni Wahrstaetter: quite trivial. But then

482
01:13:18.740 --> 01:13:27.650
Toni Wahrstaetter: you need to actually use them for parallelization. You need to actually use them for parallelizing between execution and the post state updates.

483
01:13:27.790 --> 01:13:32.382
Toni Wahrstaetter: then you might want to use them for snap sync. So there are many different things.

484
01:13:33.150 --> 01:13:40.619
Toni Wahrstaetter: that come after the protocol implementation and clients might need time to actually make use from them.

485
01:13:43.166 --> 01:13:47.093
Łukasz Rozmej: But, Tony, we clients don't have to make use of it.

486
01:13:47.780 --> 01:14:01.760
Łukasz Rozmej: asap. They can adapt it in their own on their own schedule. So that's why like it's not consensus features, so we don't have to carry them at at the fork time.

487
01:14:02.910 --> 01:14:13.329
Toni Wahrstaetter: Yeah, totally agree. That's that's that's quite nice. But still, if you want to use them for scaling clients at some point need to kinda make use of them.

488
01:14:13.470 --> 01:14:19.589
Toni Wahrstaetter: and in the end we do them for scaling. So at some point we expect clients to actually use them.

489
01:14:19.800 --> 01:14:20.160
Łukasz Rozmej: Yes.

490
01:14:20.160 --> 01:14:20.829
Tim Beiko: And then, if we.

491
01:14:21.120 --> 01:14:30.069
Łukasz Rozmej: Clients can roll them out between the fork and the next version right? So they have more time to test it and to polish.

492
01:14:31.848 --> 01:14:39.089
Ben Adams: At the very least, though you have to, we'd have to verify that the block level access lists are correct and reject the block if they're not.

493
01:14:41.950 --> 01:14:44.219
Łukasz Rozmej: And generate them during book production.

494
01:14:45.260 --> 01:14:45.850
Ben Adams: Yeah.

495
01:14:58.230 --> 01:15:22.780
Tim Beiko: Okay? I guess one other question like, yeah, that we should think about before the next call is what do we want? The timing of the next work to be, and this will inform the scope. Obviously, we can't know. We can't know it like perfectly in advance, but like yes, to the extent we wanna have smaller forks. Then we should keep the scope as tight as possible. If we're fine having longer forks, then

496
01:15:22.940 --> 01:15:33.020
Tim Beiko: we you know, we can obviously add more things. But I think this should kind of play into yeah, to what extent we're willing to accommodate more features.

497
01:15:33.190 --> 01:15:41.570
Tim Beiko: And one, I guess one other thing we haven't touched on yet is just outside of client devs like

498
01:15:42.630 --> 01:15:49.389
Tim Beiko: who are groups that we would maybe want to see, weigh in on things like fossil epbs.

499
01:15:49.550 --> 01:15:56.139
Tim Beiko: block access lists, or repricing if relevant like, are there people we should be bringing on these calls that

500
01:15:56.680 --> 01:15:59.580
Tim Beiko: or, you know, getting their feedback before the next call.

501
01:16:17.808 --> 01:16:21.989
Tim Beiko: I guess down to comment like that. Stakeholders want scaling, I guess.

502
01:16:25.330 --> 01:16:33.449
Tim Beiko: Yeah. Like, are there people like specific stakeholders. We think we should loop in and it's fine, if not. But

503
01:16:33.630 --> 01:16:36.280
Tim Beiko: yeah, this would be the times to start reaching out.

504
01:16:44.430 --> 01:16:51.830
Tim Beiko: Okay? So no strong opinions. And then, okay, the last thing maybe I wanted to propose is that so we

505
01:16:54.330 --> 01:16:56.050
Tim Beiko: you know, we have these headliners.

506
01:16:56.260 --> 01:17:00.659
Tim Beiko: What do we want as a deadline for people to submit just like

507
01:17:00.690 --> 01:17:27.969
Tim Beiko: normal eips for the fork to to do these proposals? Do we want to say that, like the proposals for regular eips, should end like when we select the headliner when Fusaka goes, live some other time. How do people feel about this like. Historically, we've had proposals come in quite late in the process. So it's probably better to set a deadline that reflects reality than to like

508
01:17:28.140 --> 01:17:39.300
Tim Beiko: optimistically say, Oh, you know, we want them to all be there in August, and then in December of this year, we're still adding vips. But yeah, curious. If people have strong opinions on this.

509
01:17:46.110 --> 01:17:54.690
Justin Florentine (Besu): Is it realistic to say that the spec is frozen, as it were, at shipping time for the previous hard fork, Fusaka.

510
01:17:55.160 --> 01:17:57.899
Tim Beiko: So by spec, you mean, like the vips included.

511
01:17:58.130 --> 01:17:58.559
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yep.

512
01:17:59.230 --> 01:18:06.329
Tim Beiko: Okay. If we were to do that, then I would say, it means all the small eip should be proposed

513
01:18:06.490 --> 01:18:16.660
Tim Beiko: by the date we choose the headliner, so that you know, as soon as we're done with the headliner we can review the other ones, and currently, that would be August 21, st which is about a month from now.

514
01:18:19.830 --> 01:18:21.350
Tim Beiko: Anyone opposed to that.

515
01:18:23.230 --> 01:18:30.619
stokes: I might be slightly, just because I'd rather focus on Fusaka and not have to also be thinking about these other eips.

516
01:18:31.000 --> 01:18:32.690
Tim Beiko: Right? Yeah, I guess this is, yeah.

517
01:18:35.330 --> 01:18:36.400
Tim Beiko: So should the deadline.

518
01:18:36.400 --> 01:18:42.980
stokes: This is fine, but if you know, I think we have some breathing room. So just something to think about before we lock in a date.

519
01:18:45.330 --> 01:18:53.758
Tim Beiko: One kind of weird compromise could be like the Fusaka testnet releases or the 1st Fusaka testnet fork or something.

520
01:18:56.600 --> 01:18:57.440
Tim Beiko: but yeah.

521
01:19:01.386 --> 01:19:04.343
Tim Beiko: and we don't. Yeah, we don't have to settle this now, but

522
01:19:05.830 --> 01:19:09.509
Tim Beiko: As we finalize the headliner, we should be clear about what

523
01:19:09.710 --> 01:19:11.620
Tim Beiko: our deadline is, and then, if

524
01:19:12.060 --> 01:19:21.543
Tim Beiko: if we finalize the headliner one month and we haven't solved it in one month, and we haven't solved this. Then I think we can't say like, oh, now, proposals are closed.

525
01:19:22.050 --> 01:19:22.770
Tim Beiko: yeah.

526
01:19:23.420 --> 01:19:38.139
Tim Beiko: okay, Maris is saying. Repricing will take more than one month to be finalized. I think. Then, yeah, clearly, it's not realistic to have the final proposals for the end of the headliner selection. So let's see how things go, and we can set a deadline

527
01:19:38.250 --> 01:19:40.239
Tim Beiko: a bit later on.

528
01:19:40.370 --> 01:19:51.240
Tim Beiko: and if people want to propose the Ips that are not headliner, just open a Pr. Against the Meta eip for the fork and listed there, and once we're done with the headliner conversations, we will get back to that list.

529
01:19:56.020 --> 01:19:57.200
Tim Beiko: Barnabas.

530
01:19:58.480 --> 01:20:07.420
Barnabas: If you want to ship a fork by, let's say next year this time. Then that means we actually need to get people to start

531
01:20:07.730 --> 01:20:24.069
Barnabas: looking into and working on epbs and access list. At least one dev per client team. This is the exact same thing as what we did for peer desk. And that is why we are actually able to ship this year and not sometime next year.

532
01:20:24.640 --> 01:20:35.130
Barnabas: and the sooner we decide in what is actually gonna go into Amsterdam, the sooner we can actually get people to dedicate a specific person into this problem.

533
01:20:35.240 --> 01:20:41.989
Barnabas: and the sooner we can have ball and up and running parallel to Futaka.

534
01:20:42.190 --> 01:20:59.280
Barnabas: and I actually disagree with Stokes. I don't think we need every single person from every single team focusing on Fusaka, because that's counterproductive. What we need is we need better parallelization. And we need more devnets. And

535
01:21:00.090 --> 01:21:03.360
Barnabas: basically, that's the only way we can ship faster.

536
01:21:07.800 --> 01:21:12.990
Tim Beiko: I guess one question there is. The Cl teams feel like next week on the call. They could actually decide.

537
01:21:13.460 --> 01:21:26.790
Tim Beiko: Like to go with epbs. If so, then I think we're in a good spot, but it feels a bit weird to make a decision about the cl headliner now. But if we can agree to make the call for the cl headliner next week.

538
01:21:27.830 --> 01:21:32.969
Tim Beiko: then, yeah. It feels a bit easier to then tell teams like you should have someone on this.

539
01:21:34.200 --> 01:21:41.550
stokes: Yeah, I'd rather focus on Dev. Note 3 for the next week or 2 until it's up and ready

540
01:21:41.980 --> 01:21:44.740
stokes: before opening that topic.

541
01:21:46.060 --> 01:21:48.439
Barnabas: I mean, every single client team has made their

542
01:21:49.162 --> 01:21:54.990
Barnabas: blog post, and every every single one of them clearly said that they want to do like.

543
01:21:54.990 --> 01:22:04.570
Tim Beiko: I think every yeah. Aragon is maybe the only one, and it's like an El team. So I think every Cl team has said the Pbs and the vast majority of El teams. Yeah.

544
01:22:05.130 --> 01:22:13.159
stokes: Right. But we also said we wanted to bring on more community input. And so this is something we're working on and that's just gonna take some more time.

545
01:22:17.714 --> 01:22:33.559
sean: Yeah. So just wanted to say for lighthouse. We put out a blog post. That was Mark's opinion on Epbs, and I think a lot of the team feel similar to Mark, but we're not entirely on the same page, like line mentioned in the same

546
01:22:33.740 --> 01:22:38.890
sean: in the in the chat he's working on like a write up on his point of view.

547
01:22:39.406 --> 01:22:57.440
sean: And also I just wanted to say, we've had Mark pretty much full time on Epbs for a while. So I think other sales teams are probably in the same boat where we're already dedicating a fair amount of effort to it. And it's I don't think it's detracting from the pure desk development. So far.

548
01:23:09.290 --> 01:23:19.420
stokes: Yeah, Perry has a comment here that could be interesting. So like, sure, we can go ahead and signal the intent. But then have again, maybe another period of a few weeks to

549
01:23:19.580 --> 01:23:22.470
stokes: get community input and see where that takes us.

550
01:23:31.860 --> 01:23:32.520
Tim Beiko: Okay.

551
01:23:38.400 --> 01:23:38.859
Parithosh Jayanthi: I do?

552
01:23:38.860 --> 01:23:39.330
Tim Beiko: And.

553
01:23:39.330 --> 01:23:51.210
Parithosh Jayanthi: So with that approach, we have to also figure out whose input we're looking at. I think Twitter sentiment doesn't really work. So whose actual input? Are we waiting for over the next couple of weeks? Who do we need to reach out to.

554
01:23:51.670 --> 01:24:04.560
stokes: Well, I think it depends on the headliners. But you know, for example, if we say Epbs is the headliner we want on the seal. Then, you know, we can bring in all the different players there. Anyone else we can think about who might be impacted.

555
01:24:05.920 --> 01:24:23.079
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think right now there's a strong signal for Epbs and block level access list. So taking these 2 as a signal from the Cl. I guess the next step is getting a signal from the community, so we should have a straight path from who these eips affect to, who we need to talk to right.

556
01:24:26.010 --> 01:24:31.230
stokes: Yeah, I think for Evs, it's pretty clear for Bil's maybe less clear.

557
01:24:33.550 --> 01:24:40.279
Roman: If I may interrupt, isn't there like a weird recursive relationship where we need to

558
01:24:40.860 --> 01:24:50.890
Roman: community input to decide the headliners? But we need like some soft commitment to the headliners to to decide who in community to talk to.

559
01:24:52.690 --> 01:25:05.846
Tim Beiko: I don't think that's yeah. That doesn't seem that crazy. Like, I think, like, we've clearly narrowed down the set. There were like, what like 9 or 10 things proposed as headliners as I checked and now it's clear that, like

560
01:25:06.710 --> 01:25:15.149
Tim Beiko: you know, on the Cl side Epvs is like, you know, the main contender fossil is like, you know.

561
01:25:15.560 --> 01:25:23.080
Tim Beiko: something that a lot of people want to see, and there's some uncertainty and then block level access list feel like a no brainer. So I think it's

562
01:25:23.190 --> 01:25:24.940
Tim Beiko: yeah. It's it's it's not

563
01:25:25.690 --> 01:25:31.108
Tim Beiko: like it is a bit. It is a bit of like a a a circular dependency. But

564
01:25:31.760 --> 01:25:36.610
Tim Beiko: you kind of shed part of the circle at each round or something. Yeah.

565
01:25:39.220 --> 01:25:46.440
Tim Beiko: And I do think, like, yeah, the the Cl side is more complex here versus the El side seems pretty straightforward. Yeah.

566
01:25:46.710 --> 01:25:57.790
Roman: Yeah, I I just strongly agree with partash, like, if we're delaying the the decision because we need to talk to the community, we need to understand who who in community to talk to.

567
01:26:02.320 --> 01:26:05.039
Tim Beiko: Yeah. So I guess on the oh, yeah, Alex, please.

568
01:26:05.040 --> 01:26:13.219
stokes: Well, just to kind of a side comment, just to make that point a little clearer, like data always was here in the chat, saying, you know, they're working on a sort of their view of epbs.

569
01:26:13.430 --> 01:26:17.339
stokes: And again, I think it's just kind of this thing where more information is better, you know.

570
01:26:17.837 --> 01:26:27.859
stokes: It could be the case that there's some angle of perspective they see that helps us inform the design, and you know, even downstream of like do we do it or not? Like you could imagine in both worlds.

571
01:26:28.030 --> 01:26:30.070
stokes: you know, just having more people

572
01:26:30.220 --> 01:26:33.090
stokes: look at the problem is probably going to lead to a better solution.

573
01:26:38.730 --> 01:26:41.760
Tim Beiko: Yeah. And that plan as well.

574
01:26:44.110 --> 01:26:53.090
Roman: Okay. So just to put it into words, we're just giving everybody time to give their input.

575
01:26:53.580 --> 01:27:08.760
Roman: Given that all of the teams already published their opinions. So if people don't give input by the next Ecd, we assume that they're fine and we can make a final decision, then is that correct?

576
01:27:11.200 --> 01:27:20.019
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I would think so. Like, I think, you know, if we said we needed 2 calls, and we end up making a decision on one that seems reasonable, but I do feel a bit uncomfortable saying, like

577
01:27:20.520 --> 01:27:39.050
Tim Beiko: we kind of signaled that we would make this decision, you know, not today, but 2 weeks from now and potentially 4 weeks from now. And if we kind of front run the community and we say, Oh, like, we just chose block access list like it feels a bit off, and if on the El side, if it's like so straightforward, then

578
01:27:39.160 --> 01:27:56.662
Tim Beiko: it shouldn't change in the next few weeks, and I think on the Cl side, then we will benefit from having more people weigh in and again, potentially at after next week. We all feel like, okay, epbs is still like the main thing, and everyone's happy with it. Then, great, let's just commit to that.

579
01:27:57.820 --> 01:28:00.989
Tim Beiko: But I yeah, I don't think that, like we

580
01:28:02.760 --> 01:28:15.638
Tim Beiko: I I don't think that like we gain much by making like a hard commitment today, especially given where Fusaka is at and again, if, like things are so clear, then they should still be clear in 2 weeks.

581
01:28:16.100 --> 01:28:16.830
Tim Beiko: yeah.

582
01:28:23.510 --> 01:28:27.740
Tim Beiko: I think that's all we had on the agenda.

583
01:28:28.310 --> 01:28:31.109
Tim Beiko: Anything else people wanted to bring up before we wrap up.

584
01:28:36.550 --> 01:28:37.700
Tim Beiko: Charles.

585
01:28:39.760 --> 01:28:58.130
Charles C: Hello, I just wanted to follow on this 79 0, 7 discussion. I paste in the chat. Basically, I had an alternative, Vip. 7,903, which only touches the net code limit, and I was wondering if I could propose that as an alternative to 79 0, 7 for Fusaka, because

586
01:28:58.798 --> 01:29:06.309
Charles C: it's not as ideal, but it does give some of the same ux benefits because it allows you to deploy groups of contracts in a single transaction.

587
01:29:09.410 --> 01:29:18.249
Tim Beiko: Unless every client team has like a full implementation already, and the testing team has a full test suite. I don't think we should add anything to Fusaka at this point.

588
01:29:20.760 --> 01:29:25.470
Tim Beiko: I assume that's not the case for 7, 9 0, 3. But if that's.

589
01:29:26.550 --> 01:29:29.930
Charles C: In some way. It's a stripped down version of 79 of 7.

590
01:29:34.480 --> 01:29:40.680
Tim Beiko: I'd be curious to hear from like testing and client teams like, is this

591
01:29:41.760 --> 01:29:44.980
Tim Beiko: like trivially easy to do, and something we want? Or

592
01:29:45.160 --> 01:29:49.840
Tim Beiko: I think if it adds any like complexity or uncertainty, we should not do it in for Seca.

593
01:29:51.840 --> 01:29:52.700
Tim Beiko: Okay?

594
01:29:54.480 --> 01:29:56.049
Tim Beiko: 7, 9, 0, 3.

595
01:30:10.740 --> 01:30:16.850
Tim Beiko: Yeah. It doesn't seem like there's strong support or understanding, so I would lean against it.

596
01:30:17.770 --> 01:30:20.769
Charles C: Is that something that we could discuss on the next Acd.

597
01:30:21.170 --> 01:30:23.489
Charles C: At least people and take a look.

598
01:30:23.490 --> 01:30:25.020
Tim Beiko: I think we're already like

599
01:30:25.730 --> 01:30:33.299
Tim Beiko: like 7, 9 0 7 was already like the last minute extension that we did past the deadline as this like a final

600
01:30:33.510 --> 01:30:43.319
Tim Beiko: attempt to include something, and that turned out to be more complicated. But yeah, I don't think like

601
01:30:44.200 --> 01:30:48.390
Tim Beiko: trying to understand or add new vips at this point makes sense. Yeah.

602
01:30:51.170 --> 01:30:54.199
Tim Beiko: But yeah, obviously, we can discuss it for Amsterdam. But

603
01:30:54.765 --> 01:31:00.299
Tim Beiko: I think for Fuseca we remove 7 9 0, 7 and call it a day.

604
01:31:07.460 --> 01:31:09.390
Tim Beiko: Anything else before we wrap up.

605
01:31:19.020 --> 01:31:19.830
Tim Beiko: Okay.

606
01:31:20.760 --> 01:31:31.330
Tim Beiko: thanks, everyone. And yeah, let's get them to 3 up I'll update the Meta Eip to remove 7, 9 0, 7, and we can talk about the headliners some more next week for the Cl. Call.

607
01:31:32.840 --> 01:31:33.879
Tim Beiko: Talk to you all soon.

608
01:31:36.040 --> 01:31:36.680
Fredrik: Thank you.

609
01:31:36.680 --> 01:31:37.930
Fredrik: Thank you. Bye-bye.

610
01:31:38.190 --> 01:31:38.900
Justin Traglia: Bye, everyone.

611
01:31:41.740 --> 01:31:42.440
Marius van der Wijden: But.

