00:03:54	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/650/files
00:04:09	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	https://github.com/simsonraj/execution-apis/blob/527bb9af49ba12bbed37cc36d4cfe42048cd114e/src/extensions/README.md
00:07:59	Ben Adams:	Issue bot is using different meeting link
00:14:34	Åukasz Rozmej:	IMO you need tests to show them they are not complying to standard
00:19:52	FLCL:	can be additional separate namespaces like core or zk, to make it clearer
00:20:03	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "can be additional se..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:17	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Reacted to "can be additional se..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:37	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to can be additional se... with "ğŸ‘"
00:22:55	Bumblefudge:	https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-25#error-codes
00:23:16	Bumblefudge:	^ I would also mention that wallets and dapps need some amount of namespaces for errors between them
00:24:13	Bumblefudge:	(mostly out of scope here, but just mentioned it in case anyone proposes a convention for diff categories of error)
00:24:19	FLCL:	zk-transactioncore-transactionreserve a namespace in a pr and get a range like we do with eips
00:25:00	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Replying to "zk-transaction
core-..."

Could you please expand more on this?
00:26:42	FLCL:	Replying to "zk-transactioncore-..."

Just thinking about how could be simpler for everyone to reserve and name error code ranges. Could be a pr template, prs are discussed during a meeting like the current one
00:29:33	Felix (Geth):	https://hive.ethpandaops.io/#/test/generic/1760324436-e0868dd784516c0b1d674d4d32add349?page=1&testnumber=19
00:32:19	keri:	Not merged yet
00:32:27	keri:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/600
00:33:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/pull/8951
00:33:34	Bumblefudge:	sometimes it's that easy!
00:33:41	Barnabas:	most of the time its that easy
00:33:54	Barnabas:	the hard part is getting everyone on the call/actually go through them
00:34:01	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to "the hard part is get..." with ğŸ™ƒ
00:35:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	sort of. gettin a pr into a spec merged is the harder part.
00:35:29	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Reacted to "sort of. gettin a pr..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:35:55	Barnabas:	Replying to "sort of. gettin a pr..."

just give me merge rights
00:35:58	Barnabas:	Replying to "sort of. gettin a pr..."

one approve and its in ğŸ˜„
00:36:00	felix (eest):	Reacted to "just give me merge..." with ğŸš€
00:36:16	keri:	Reacted to "one approve and its ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:36:27	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Replying to "sort of. gettin a pr..."

We can  disturb lighclient for this
00:37:06	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "one approve and its ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:36	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "sort of. gettin a ..."

I can merge it if you allow me to...
00:38:38	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to "just give me merge r..." with ğŸš€
00:38:40	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to "one approve and its ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:38:45	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Reacted to "IMO you need tests t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:39:01	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Reacted to "^ I would also menti..." with ğŸ‘€
00:39:42	FLCL:	There was mention of a requirement of way more tests for rpc. Can we cover one specific endpoint with what could be ideal coverage
00:39:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "sort of. gettin a pr..."

who all has maintainer access on this repo?
00:40:09	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Reacted to "one approve and its ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:40:26	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Reacted to "There was mention of..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:40:43	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Replying to "sort of. gettin a pr..."

Lightclient  fjl
00:40:55	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Replying to "There was mention of..."

Yea thats my next goal, will be writing some tests to simulate the negative cases against different clients
00:41:15	Felix (Geth):	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-695
00:41:35	keri:	Replying to "sort of. gettin a pr..."

I do too
00:41:55	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to "I do too" with ğŸ‘€
00:42:03	Felix (Geth):	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5749
00:42:11	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Reacted to "I do too" with ğŸ‘€
00:44:19	FLCL:	Versioning for APIs is different that for consensus
00:46:01	Felix (Geth):	sorry guys I need to go and pick up my kids
00:46:08	Barnabas:	wen rest
00:46:41	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "wen rest" with ğŸ‘
00:46:50	Bumblefudge:	@Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR] does this feel like useful first-steps or orthogonal to what you were asking about?
00:47:28	FLCL:	what's graphql
00:47:34	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to "what's graphql" with ğŸ™ƒ
00:48:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "what's graphql"

besu has gql but nobody uses it
00:49:35	FLCL:	Reacted to "besu has gql but nob..." with ğŸ¥²
00:50:38	FLCL:	Replying to "what's graphql"

so it all sounds like we just need to agree on json rpc and improve it to perfection
00:50:53	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to "so it all sounds lik..." with ğŸ¤
00:50:53	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Replying to "can be additional se..."

that sounds like a good idea, will try and add that space
00:51:28	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Replying to "what's graphql"

Yes, and also for clients teams to join in this calls
00:51:46	Simsonraj Easvarasakthi:	Replying to "zk-transaction
core-..."

yea, I think having a separate zk space, seems like a good idea, I can try that in this proposal
00:51:47	FLCL:	Reacted to "Yes, and also for cl..." with ğŸ«¡
00:54:38	Zane Starr:	Reacted to "so it all sounds lik..." with ğŸ¤
