00:03:31	Supernormal AI Notetaker:	Hi there ğŸ‘‹ I was invited by ğ—ğ˜‚ğ—±ğ—² to transcribe and take notes for this meeting. Learn more: https://supernorm.al/zoom

Type /ğ—µğ—²ğ—¹ğ—½ at any time to see what else I can do.
00:03:39	read.ai meeting notes:	Lisandro and Teck Yuan added read.ai meeting notes to the meeting.

Read provides AI generated meeting summaries to make meetings more effective and efficient. View our Privacy Policy at https://www.read.ai/pp

Type "read stop" to disable, or "opt out" to delete meeting data.
00:03:49	f:	Sup
00:03:50	JÃ¼nger:	Gm
00:03:56	Joshua Rudolf:	Gmgm
00:04:00	Oscar Morke â”ƒ Ledger:	gmgm
00:04:04	Blockscout assistant:	To start the notetaking and recording, the meeting host needs to be present and approve the recording pop-up message.
00:04:05	Blockscout assistant:	I'm Blockscout assistant, ready to take notes for Ulyana Skladchikova.
To start the notetaking and recording, the meeting host needs to approve the recording pop-up message.
00:04:05	Rostislav's Fellow Note Taker:	Waiting for the Zoom hostâ€™s permission to begin taking notes and recording.
00:04:16	Rostislav's Fellow Note Taker:	This meeting cannot be recorded because the host has denied permission.
00:04:19	Fireflies.ai Notetaker Jeremy:	Talk to Fireflies: (Web-search enabled)
â€¢ Say: Hey Fireflies how can you help?
â€¢ Type: /ff help
to get started.
View real-time notes and transcription for this meeting here: https://app.fireflies.ai/live/01JY5NKRK6B2M4BT05AZD593F3?ref=live_chat
00:04:34	JÃ¼nger:	AI horde
00:05:43	JÃ¼nger:	Shame Orest, you didnâ€™t ping me in Turkey
00:06:04	Joshua Rudolf:	agenda: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1591
00:07:07	Brecht's Notetaker (Otter.ai):	Hi, I'm an AI assistant helping Brecht take notes for this meeting. Follow along the transcript here:  https://otter.ai/u/BbMkTC8I0sCtQNkJNikXXs2aQv0?utm_source=va_chat_link_1
You'll also be able to see screenshots of key moments, add highlights, comments, or action items to anything being said, and get an automatic summary after the meeting.

00:08:58	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Replying to "Shame Orest, you did..."

Oh damn true! PING jÃ¼nger.local ğŸ˜„
00:09:05	Skele | Wonderland:	already nerd-sniped by this
00:09:09	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "AI horde" with ğŸ’¯
00:09:10	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "AI horde" with ğŸ˜ª
00:09:28	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "AI horde" with ğŸ«¨
00:14:31	Nam:	Is there a link to this presentation we can share with others?
00:15:46	TY:	Reacted to "Is there a link to t..." with â•
00:17:14	TiTi (Wonderland):	Amazing work!! thanks!
00:17:20	Ivan:	Super cool
00:18:46	Ivan:	Reacted to "Is there a link to t..." with â•
00:18:52	rithythul (koompi):	cool
00:19:02	Maurice:	Reacted to "Is there a link to tâ€¦" with â•
00:19:03	rithythul (koompi):	Thanks for the presentation
00:19:53	hang leang:	Reacted to "Thanks for the preseâ€¦" with ğŸ‘Œ
00:20:21	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "Is there a link to t..." with â•
00:20:40	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Thanks for the preseâ€¦" with ğŸ‘Œ
00:20:45	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Is there a link to tâ€¦" with â•
00:20:49	Allan | Offchain Labs:	Reacted to "Thanks for the pre..." with ğŸ‘Œ
00:20:56	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Thanks for the prese..." with ğŸ‘Œ
00:24:09	Skele | Wonderland:	btw, how can we collaborate on these efforts?
00:24:10	f:	Itâ€™s very easy to spin up a node
https://github.com/bcnmy/mee-node-deployment
00:24:21	Ahmed Al-Balaghi:	Reacted to "Thanks for the preseâ€¦" with ğŸ‘Œ
00:24:22	Ivan:	Reacted to "Thanks for the prese..." with ğŸ‘Œ
00:24:29	Mislav:	Thanks!
00:24:44	Mislav:	https://blog.biconomy.io/eip-7702-from-transactions-to-composable-multi-chain-programs-verfiable-scripting-on-the-evm/
00:24:59	Mislav:	btw, how can we collaborate on these efforts?

Ping @oxshaman on TG
00:26:01	Skele | Wonderland:	Reacted to "btw, how can we co..." with â¤ï¸
00:27:17	Vaelyn  | ECH:	Reacted to "btw, how can we co..." with â¤ï¸
00:27:55	Marissa Posner:	Reacted to "Is there a link to t..." with â•
00:29:57	Joshua Rudolf:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@rudolf/kohaku-wallet
00:30:01	JÃ¼nger:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:03	Ellie Davidson:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:06	TY:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:09	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "btw, how can we coll..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:24	Vaelyn  | ECH:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethe..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:37	Mojmir Racak:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with â¤ï¸
00:32:50	Vandan Parikh:	Great to see the privacy angle incorporated here. ğŸ™
00:32:58	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Great to see the pri..." with ğŸ’¯
00:34:25	hang leang:	Reacted to "Great to see the priâ€¦" with ğŸ’¯
00:36:30	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "Great to see the pri..." with â¤ï¸
00:36:32	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "Great to see the pri..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:33	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with â¤ï¸
00:36:44	TiTi (Wonderland):	https://defi-wonderland.notion.site/Interoperable-Addresses-Wallet-2019a4c092c780d09070fc06a1043303
00:36:45	Vandan Parikh:	TiTi - this is super impressive. Truly rockin now!!
00:36:50	Marc:	Reacted to "Great to see the priâ€¦" with ğŸ’¯
00:36:51	TiTi (Wonderland):	Reacted to "TiTi - this is sup..." with â¤ï¸
00:36:57	Vaelyn  | ECH:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonde..." with â¤ï¸
00:36:59	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonderl..." with â¤ï¸
00:37:15	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "TiTi - this is super..." with â¤ï¸
00:38:24	Marc:	Wonderland team, how can we get in touch to collaborate?
00:40:22	Mislav:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonderl..." with â¤ï¸
00:41:01	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "https://defi-wonderl..." with â¤ï¸
00:41:16	Skele | Wonderland:	Replying to "Wonderland team, h..."

@marc you can ping us on tg: @skeletor_spaceman
00:42:21	Mislav:	Sharding is back! :)
00:42:29	JÃ¼nger:	Replying to "Sharding is back! :)"

Always has been
00:42:33	Mislav:	Reacted to "Always has been" with â¤ï¸
00:42:36	Ellie Davidson:	Reacted to "Always has been" with â¤ï¸
00:42:40	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Always has been" with â¤ï¸
00:42:43	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Always has been" with â¤ï¸
00:44:08	Marc:	Reacted to "@marc you can ping uâ€¦" with ğŸ‘Œ
00:45:59	Joxes | Wonderland:	Replying to "Sharding is back! :)"

permissionless sharding
00:48:16	Joshua Rudolf:	Maybe we can touch on timelines / path for end users being able to leverage the interop benefits made possible by based rollup / shared sequencing ğŸ’•
00:48:25	Ulyana @ Blockscout:	Reacted to "@marc you can ping u..." with â¤ï¸
00:49:12	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "Always has been" with â¤ï¸
00:49:53	vaibhav jindal:	Does only the L1 proposer has block building right for based rollup?
00:49:53	Nam:	+1 to easily understand how based rollups would help "solve interop" and what needs to happen for that
00:50:10	Joxes | Wonderland:	great question here is how to come up with the right token bridging methods; I know shared bridges has been discussed somewhere, is there a discussion chat about it?
00:54:27	Ladislaus:	Replying to "Does only the L1 pro..."

yes, ultimately the rotating, ephemeral L1 proposer sequences a based rollup
00:54:53	Drew Van der Werff:	Replying to "+1 to easily underst..."

Here is a bit of an education on based rollup in the context of broader interop and where it does and does not fit in. Please ping me if this does not help!

https://eth-fabric.github.io/website/education/composability
00:55:45	Nam:	What would be the benefit of "just having a shared sequencer"?
00:57:17	Joshua Rudolf:	Replying to "great question here ..."

Not aware of any, but happy to support if someone wants to lead ğŸ™‚
00:57:31	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "What would be the be..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:05	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Here is a bit of an ..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:10	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "yes, ultimately the ..." with ğŸ™
00:58:25	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "great question here ..." 

 Some research on the topic:
https://ethresear.ch/t/embedded-rollups-part-1-introduction/21460
https://ethresear.ch/t/embedded-rollups-part-2-shared-bridging/21461
00:58:35	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "Some research on the..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:36	Ladislaus:	Replying to "What would be the be..."

L1<>L2 and L2<>L2 synchronous contract calls, transfers, orchestrated by a credibly neutral entity, the L1 validator
00:58:38	Drew Van der Werff:	Reacted to "Some research on the..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:40	Vaelyn  | ECH:	Reacted to "Some research on t..." with â¤ï¸
00:58:47	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Some research on the..." with â¤ï¸
00:58:49	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Some research on the..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:52	Drew Van der Werff:	Reacted to "L1<>L2 and L2<>L2 sy..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:53	TiTi (Wonderland):	Reacted to "Some research on t..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:55	Vaelyn  | ECH:	Reacted to "L1<>L2 and L2<>L2 ..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:22	Nam:	Replying to "What would be the ..."

Do we get that by simply sharing a sequencer? Wouldn't we need additional building blocks for lets say synchronous contract calls?
01:01:36	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "Do we get that by si..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:55	Nam:	Replying to "What would be the ..."

(in reference to why does conduit not simply share a sequencer that donno.eth mentioned)
01:02:12	Nam:	Replying to "What would be the ..."

it sounds to me that a shared sequencer is necessary, but not sufficient
01:02:25	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "it sounds to me that..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:49	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "it sounds to me that..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:04	Ladislaus:	Replying to "What would be the be..."

IMO, it is to a large extent also a social coordination question - 
for example: why don't Arbitrum and Optimism share a sequencer?
01:04:05	frangio:	Replying to "What would be the beâ€¦"
yes i think thats right, the sequencer needs additional special logic to properly handle the dependencies between synchronously composed transactions
01:04:06	Joshua Rudolf:	Replying to "What would be the be..."

Yeah would love to understand what else is needed
01:06:01	frangio:	Replying to "What would be the beâ€¦"
i think for sync comp you need to execute txs concurrently. also need the api for end users to submit sync transaction pairs
01:06:29	Ellie Davidson:	Replying to "What would be the be..."

To get atomicity we need: 
Either real-time proving or shared settlement
New sequencing software that knows how to build (execute) blocks simultaneously
A way to represent atomic transactions on chain / a way for users to specify they want the transaction to be atomic.
01:06:41	frangio:	Reacted to "To get atomicity we â€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:06:42	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "i think for sync com..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:43	Joxes | Wonderland:	Reacted to "To get atomicity we ..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:44	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "To get atomicity we ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:05	Nam:	Reacted to "To get atomicity w..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:08	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "To get atomicity we ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:25	Ian Norden:	Reacted to "To get atomicity we ..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:28	Nam:	Replying to "What would be the ..."

Is it just me, but isn't the answer for why Optimism and Arbitrum not share a sequencer then that it doesn't give us anything until we have all these?
