00:10:25	pari,marius&gballet:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/post-finality-path-forward-holesky
00:10:26	Tim Beiko:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/post-finality-path-forward-holesky
00:10:26	Barnabas:	we originally thought that increasing the exit balance to 28th would enable us to keep holesky as healthy as possible by kicking out inactive validators a lot sooner on a healthy network. This now bite us in the back.
00:10:28	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/post-finality-path-forward-holesky
00:10:34	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "we originally though..." with ğŸ˜„
00:10:44	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "we originally thou..." with ğŸ˜„
00:11:06	nflaig:	Reacted to "we originally though..." with ğŸ˜„
00:11:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ…°ï¸
00:11:55	Fredrik:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ…°ï¸
00:11:56	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "we originally though..." with ğŸ˜„
00:12:27	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	How hard and time consuming will be D?
00:12:45	Barnabas:	Replying to "How hard and time co..."

nobody really seem to truly want D
00:13:13	Barnabas:	even tho it could be the fastest
00:13:21	Nishant:	Replying to "How hard and time ..."

Won't be time consuming, but there is execution risk
00:13:29	Matt Nelson:	Implement then rip out?
00:13:33	nflaig:	Replying to "How hard and time co..."

option D seems like the fastest way to non-finality testing on mainnet
00:13:34	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	We also prefer plan D for short-term, we heavly relay on exits (fee splitter with some third-party like EL).
For long term  is fine to have a new testnet I believe
00:13:41	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Reacted to "option D seems lik..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:44	pk910:	Reacted to "option D seems like ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:45	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "option D seems like ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:45	felix (eest):	Reacted to "option D seems lik..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:50	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "option D seems like ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:13:53	marek:	Reacted to "option D seems like ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:19	Barnabas:	Reacted to "option D seems like ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:55	Tim Beiko:	Is there a one constant change we can implement for (D)?
00:15:18	lightclient:	what is the time diff between A and D?
00:15:18	pari,marius&gballet:	Maybe some CL teams can chime in?
00:15:37	Barnabas:	How about we combine A + D? We launch a new network and yolo holesky with D?
00:15:45	Matt Nelson:	++ ^^
00:15:53	Matt Nelson:	Solves short term
00:15:54	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "How about we combine..."

Yeah, I think if we do (D) we should shut down Holesky shortly after Pectrra
00:15:57	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "what is the time dif..."

Id assume itâ€™ll be 3-4 weeks before A is fully up to speed
00:16:05	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "How about we combi..."

As I understand it still doesn;t remove a risksomething sneak into mainnet, right?
00:16:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we're gonna need an A option soon for Fusaka anyway
00:16:17	Marissa Posner:	Reacted to "we're gonna need an ..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:19	Matt Nelson:	Reacted to "we're gonna need an ..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:31	Barnabas:	Replying to "How about we combine..."

D could just live on some random branch of a client impl.
00:16:50	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "How about we combi..."

Coordintation for that would be again hell on Holesky, right?
00:16:51	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we're gonna need an ..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:53	Matt Nelson:	@Justin Florentine (Besu) what're the specifics here ^ for next fork
00:16:54	pari,marius&gballet:	@Nishant @Preston Van Loon @James He perhaps since I see you guys here?
00:16:57	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "@Nishant @Preston Va..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "How about we combine..."

We embrace chaos!
00:17:14	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "How about we combi..."

And again lon non-finality if not everyone will upgrade?
00:17:22	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Replying to "How about we combi..."

we can do A for long-term, because there are also third-parties needed to be there like SAFE, SSV, EigenLayer and so on
But anyway we need something to test before mainnet and use for that pland D
After Pectra in mainnet just to move to a new testnet which will be maybe already ready
00:17:29	Barnabas:	Reacted to "And again lon non-fi..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:40	Barnabas:	Reacted to "@Nishant @Preston Va..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:49	Mikhail Kalinin:	We can reset one parameter in the state to reset the exit queue, but slashings that are still happening will be affecting the queue anyway
00:17:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "@Justin Florentine (..."

it's an argument for both, because i'm not sure how usefull a long lived D is to Fusaka.
00:17:59	Matt Nelson:	How many remain Mikhail
00:18:16	Matt Nelson:	How many times would we have to reset the queue ğŸ˜…
00:18:18	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "How many remain Mikh..."

unfortunately, i donâ€™t know
00:18:20	lightclient:	Replying to "what is the time dif..."

and how long for D?
00:18:27	pk910:	Option D is basically a testnet only hardfork.
That's a irregular state change to update the exit_epoch of all exiting validator set..
00:18:40	lightclient:	I feel like we shouldnâ€™t do another hard fork to Holesky
00:18:50	lightclient:	especially if it isnâ€™t trivial
00:19:00	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "what is the time dif..."

Feels like 2-ish weeks? Maybe some co-ordination overhead?
00:19:11	lightclient:	Reacted to "Feels like 2-ish wee..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:32	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	+1 to Daniel's point.
Week for implementation, week before hardfork, unknown till we finalize again
00:19:43	Matt Nelson:	Im not sure about that
00:20:17	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	I dont think we should implement a testnet-only hardfork
00:20:47	sean:	If we re-use fork version maybe it wonâ€™t be as bad
00:21:07	Gajinder Singh:	separate branch could work only if holesky is to be run for 2-3 months
00:21:07	protolambda:	Did we already max out the current churn limit, to accelerate validator exits?
00:21:27	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "separate branch coul..."

I think that would be the idea with D
00:21:43	Prada | Diva Staking:	We need to test pectra exits, so definitely cleaning up the exit queue or having a functional testnet with exits at a reasonable time is essential for us. We are ok with D + A. Whatever is faster and produces the least amount of headaches, but at the same time is stable on the long run.
00:21:58	Barnabas:	Replying to "Did we already max o..."

churn limit is 8, it would take 600d to dequeue the 1M validators
00:21:59	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	but if there will be a new testnet, I understand it right, that Pectra on mainnet will be AFTER this testnet will be ready + 1month to test?
00:22:37	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "We need to test pe..." with â•
00:22:41	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "separate branch coul..."

should be doable then
00:22:57	Roman:	any approaches under D sound hacky at best
00:23:03	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "any approaches under..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:23:13	Matt Nelson:	Reacted to "any approaches under..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:23:42	Gajinder Singh:	D includes A ;-)
00:24:12	Barnabas:	Reacted to "any approaches under..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:24:20	nflaig:	D with a custom code fork we just use on holesky + using an epoch instead of full fork to trigger the change could maybe work and be simple?
00:24:31	Gajinder Singh:	+1 with pari, A needs to be irrespective
00:24:43	Kirill M:	how much time will Holesky live after possible option D before the transition to option A (new testnet)? 
00:25:22	Barnabas:	Replying to "how much time will H..."

this can be done parallel
00:25:53	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "how much time will H..."

only long enough to test pectra exits
00:26:03	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Isn't shadowfork solve the exit queue issue?
I guess I miss something but we remain the EL state, it could be fast and we could keep it withotu spawning new testnet?
Only not sure about all the coordination about that
00:26:13	Kirill M:	Reacted to "only long enough to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:18	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "Isn't shadowfork sol..."

Same effort as A for tooling to support it
00:26:23	Tim Beiko:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/hoodi
00:26:29	pari,marius&gballet:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/hoodi
00:27:36	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Replying to "Isn't shadowfork s..."

For tooling but for creation of it shouldn't it be faster than completly new testnet setup? Assuming all EL/CL releases that needs to be made to support it?
00:28:07	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "D with a custom code..."

+1 with this solution, simple
00:28:16	Barnabas:	Are there any client teams that would NOT want to run validators for hoodi?
00:28:19	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "D with a custom code..."

agreed
00:28:38	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "D with a custom code..."

lockit!
00:29:06	Matt Nelson:	Will sepolia successor have a closed set too?
00:29:27	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "Will sepolia success..."

Ideally yes, the small size helps keep it stable for app devs
00:29:30	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "lockit!" with ğŸš¢
00:29:49	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "D with a custom code..." with ğŸš¢
00:29:58	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "lockit!" with ğŸš¢
00:30:08	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "lockit!" with ğŸš¢
00:30:11	Matt Nelson:	Reacted to "Ideally yes, the sma..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ»
00:31:44	nflaig:	Reacted to "lockit!" with ğŸš¢
00:31:58	Mario Havel:	One quick thing re Pectra testnets postmortems - we'd like to gather information from client teams about specific issues that occurred in each client during incidents, especially CL. Please fill the form when you have a minute  https://pad.ethereum.org/form/#/2/form/view/5tTG6KqXKea87LR2BDha7QzCpDxwmYGEtKTcmFeju0Q/
00:32:13	Tim Beiko:	We basically need one testnet for apps, one for infra (incl. LSTs), one for core devs (max out on validator count/gas limit)
00:32:47	sacha:	Reacted to "We basically need on..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:13	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "We basically need on..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:28	pari,marius&gballet:	@Kamil ChodoÅ‚a also had similar ideas on framing and ideas on how to use this â€œedge caseâ€ network ğŸ™‚
00:33:41	saulius:	We basically need one testnet for apps, one for infra (incl. LSTs), one for core devs (max out on validator count/gas limit)
where do we test long non-finality?
00:33:41	Mario Havel:	Just to note, if HoleÅ¡ky sunsets early, it should be also discussed here, the repo promises support till 2028 https://github.com/eth-clients/holesky
00:33:43	Radek:	This could maybe save Holesky
00:34:00	Radek:	If it's just a core-dev testnet
00:34:00	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "We basically need on..."

Max out testnet
00:34:44	Sophia Gold:	More testnets means longer release cycles
00:34:45	Dustin:	Nimbus also use(s/d) Holesky as a way of testing releases, and it would be useful to have a large-validator-count but relatively stable (not only the nonfinality testnet) testnet
00:34:46	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "If it's just a core-..."

Yup, we could see if its useful to have it that way
00:34:59	Barnabas:	heads up we have some unfinality on pectra-devnet-6
00:35:01	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/d)..."

Would 500-600k count as large enough?
00:35:07	Francis Li:	Reacted to "More testnets means â€¦" with â˜ï¸
00:35:08	Chris:	If hoodi has the most external dependencies sure it should be forked last?
00:35:32	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/..."

hm, ideally >= mainnet count. But 500-600k is ok too
00:35:45	Barnabas:	Replying to "heads up we have som..."

looks to be some teku and geth related issue, still looking into it
00:35:46	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/d)..."

Yeah trying to do a tradeoff between cost of running and usecase
00:35:56	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/..."

the nice thing is it came built-in with interop, etc etc testing
00:36:02	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/..."

with other CLs and ELs
00:36:06	nflaig:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/d)..."

same for lodestar, it's useful for us that is has even more validators than mainnet so we see perf issues there first
00:36:11	potuz:	can't we start with Holesky's state?
00:36:20	Cayman Nava:	yeah we were using it too for testing "mainnet-ish" workloads
00:36:21	potuz:	just bootstrap a different consensus
00:36:25	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "can't we start wit..." met ğŸ‘
00:36:38	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/..."

and as for cost, ensure client teams run them?
00:36:42	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus also use(s/..."

those validatos
00:36:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "heads up we have som..."

butta always watching ğŸ˜„
00:36:58	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "can't we start with ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:57	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "just bootstrap a dif..."

and change the address of the deposit contract to the one we have on the mainnet
00:38:59	Matt Nelson:	As long as ETH is plentiful
00:39:01	Matt Nelson:	I think its fine
00:39:31	Dustin:	do we know consolidations will happen?
00:39:44	Dustin:	i.e. that large number of people on mainnet will actually consolidate
00:40:13	potuz:	For CL testing I would rather have a large validator set regardless of consolidation, we still need to deal with holes in the validator set and so forth
00:40:24	potuz:	+ 1 to Pari: I want to keep the hashing and the trie similar
00:40:32	Barnabas:	so plan B, with only 32eth validators, and do consolidations later
00:40:43	Gajinder Singh:	sounds good
00:40:47	Dustin:	+1
00:40:50	Prada | Diva Staking:	Yes, sounds good
00:40:55	saulius:	+1
00:41:11	pari,marius&gballet:	For the lore: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hoodi_metro_station
00:41:19	pari,marius&gballet:	And the mascot is a peacock in a hoodie
00:41:29	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "And the mascot is a ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:31	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "For the lore: https:..." with â¤ï¸
00:41:34	pari,marius&gballet:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1346#issuecomment-2721238348
00:41:37	nixo:	Reacted to "And the mascot is a ..." with ğŸ¦š
00:41:40	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "And the mascot is a ..." with ğŸ¦š
00:41:52	marek:	Reacted to "And the mascot is a ..." with ğŸ¦š
00:41:53	Matt Nelson:	Discord discussion where? #pectra-public?
00:41:56	Barnabas:	when do we wanna launch it? How long does it need for client teams to integrate a new network?
00:41:59	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	pectra on mainnet will be delayed until we will get a new testnet, right?
00:42:22	Dustin:	it's more a testing issue than anything else
00:42:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "it's more a testing ..." with â•
00:42:37	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "And the mascot is a ..." with ğŸ¦š
00:42:58	Ivan Metrikin:	Agree. D -> A leads to faster mainnet for Pectra
00:43:06	Dustin:	going to mainnet faster isn't a virtue in itself. going to mainnet faster safely is
00:43:14	Dustin:	and that needs testing
00:43:23	Ivan Metrikin:	Reacted to "going to mainnet fas..." with ğŸ’¯
00:43:24	Chris:	If external teams are going to launch on hooli they probably need enough time to deploy before forking to Electra. Is there an idea of when we would fork Hooli?
00:44:00	potuz:	Can't we just schedule it at launch?
00:44:10	Chris:	A week doesn't sound like enough for Lido etc
00:44:14	Oisin Kyne:	Schedule yes, but transition like a week in
00:44:49	potuz:	I'd rather do less than a week for the fork?  people that really need to do the transition can deploy early
00:45:02	potuz:	I rather have more Electra time testing than wasting a week
00:45:08	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I'd rather do less t..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:14	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I'd rather do less tâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:45:26	Dustin:	Nimbus wants lots of hoodi vals
00:45:30	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Nimbus wants lots of..." with ğŸš€
00:45:33	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Nimbus wants lots of..." with ğŸš€
00:45:36	Kirill M:	Reacted to "A week doesn't sound..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:37	marek:	Reacted to "Nimbus wants lots of..." with ğŸš€
00:45:37	Oisin Kyne:	Replying to "I'd rather do less t..."

They canâ€™t deploy anything on the EL side before genesis?
00:45:49	Oisin Kyne:	Contracts/oracles/keepers/governors+timelocks etc
00:46:02	potuz:	Replying to "I'd rather do less..."

This can be probably arranged @pari,marius&gballet
00:46:12	Matt Nelson:	Ty Pari
00:46:14	nflaig:	Reacted to "Nimbus wants lots of..." with ğŸš€
00:46:16	Oisin Kyne:	Replying to "I'd rather do less t..."

Fair point I suppose.
00:46:18	Barnabas:	Replying to "I'd rather do less t..."

I wouldnâ€™t do that tbh.
00:46:53	potuz:	I don't know why pinging Pari also pinged Marius and Guillaume and also kicked me out lol
00:47:09	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "I don't know why pin..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:47:12	potuz:	minor?
00:47:13	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I don't know why pin..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:47:21	marek:	Reacted to "I don't know why pin..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:48:29	Francis Li:	curious how long does it take for those to work?
00:48:34	pari,marius&gballet:	2 weeks maybe?
00:48:48	Oisin Kyne:	Replying to "I'd rather do less t..."

(FWIW Obol donâ€™t need a huge amount of time pre-fork if no one else does either (assuming weâ€™ve keys in the genesis set / we take the holesky set))
00:49:10	Francis Li:	Reacted to "I'd rather do less tâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:49:14	potuz:	+1 for Enrico
00:49:17	Tim Beiko:	I would like to make sure we test all the codepaths for new EIPs ğŸ˜„
00:49:20	Radek:	+1 to look how clients pack attestations
00:49:21	Chris:	We should probably make sure the Hooli fork is done with fully released client versions. There are a few branches of client versions with patches/fixes for holesky.
00:49:21	potuz:	data gathering on attestations is still missing
00:49:22	Francis Li:	would love to be able to speed this up
00:49:32	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "We should probably m..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:41	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "+1 for Enrico" with ğŸ‘
00:50:36	Barnabas:	canâ€™t these all be deployed parallel?
00:50:44	Barnabas:	sounds like an ansible playbook to run?
00:51:08	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "canâ€™t these all be dâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:51:10	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "sounds like an ansibâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:51:35	Barnabas:	sounds like something that should really be automated.
00:51:51	Barnabas:	sounds like something you could use kurtosis for btw ^
00:52:14	pari,marius&gballet:	Slasher test is something we should do on a short lived devnet, we can spin something up for you
00:52:15	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "data gathering on at..."

We have just have this AFAIK
https://gist.github.com/eth2353/32592f1a6b103f1e8f3d9c0869bc6243
00:52:26	sacha:	Reacted to "Contracts/oracles/ke..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:05	nflaig:	if this happens on mainnet it is essentially just a DA problem since we could handcraft slashings in the worst case if you have all attestations available
00:53:07	Ivan Metrikin:	Replying to "sounds like somethin..."

Yes, we should definitely explore kurtosis. Looks very promising
00:53:57	Ben Adams:	Is pectra relevant for the slasher? Mainnet current is same?
00:54:23	spencer-tb:	From myself in EEST, re. testing requirements:
Must: all our tests passing in hive on all EL clients, consume rlp/engine.
Must: re-reviewing the tests we have for all EL EIPs, adding tests for any other missing coverage we can find (post BLS scare checks).
Nice to have: update the old hive engine simulator (in golang) for Prague, add new scenarios.
Nice to have: line coverage reviews from our spec tests on all clients.
00:54:29	Barnabas:	Replying to "Is pectra relevant f..."

doubt any client team looked at their slashers since genesis ?
00:54:49	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Is pectra relevant f..."

Don't see why relevant for the fork though
00:55:02	potuz:	@ben Pectra is very relevant for the slasher
00:55:06	potuz:	Attestation packing changed
00:55:15	Ben Adams:	Ah ok
00:55:33	Barnabas:	Replying to "sounds like somethin..."

Feel free to ping me if you have any questions.
00:55:36	Som - Erigon:	Those don't include block-building and entire consensus lifecycle, do they?
00:56:02	sacha:	Reacted to "A week doesn't sound..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:31	Barnabas:	only difference will be the chainid
00:56:35	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "only difference will..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:51	sacha:	Replying to "I'd rather do less t..."

lido needs min a week to get at least some node operators and some 3rd party oracles set up
00:56:51	Barnabas:	unless we want to create some mess ğŸ˜‚
00:57:04	pari,marius&gballet:	https://hive.ethpandaops.io/pectra-devnet-6/index.html#summary-sort=name
00:57:45	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Attestation packing ..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:20	Dustin:	please don't deploy w/o lido testing
00:58:44	Kirill M:	Reacted to "please don't deploy ..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:46	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "please don't deploy ..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:30	Fredrik:	Reacted to "please don't deploy ..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:35	potuz:	+1
00:59:42	nflaig:	Reacted to "please don't deploy ..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:45	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "+1" with â•
00:59:48	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "+1" with â•
00:59:49	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "+1" met ğŸ‘
00:59:50	Francesco:	+1, 1 month extra for Pectra doesnâ€™t really matter at this point?
00:59:53	Marissa Posner:	Reacted to "+1" with â•
00:59:57	Marissa Posner:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:00	pari,marius&gballet:	Yes please we need more pressure on client teams (Marius)
01:00:01	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:05	Fredrik:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:08	Toni Wahrstaetter:	+1, let's also fix slashers like potuz suggested.
01:00:18	Fredrik:	Reacted to "+1" with â•
01:00:19	Fredrik:	Reacted to "+1" with ğŸ‘
01:00:20	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Yes please we need m..."

saymore?
01:00:27	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:27	Barnabas:	Replying to "Yes please we need m..."

whip.jpg
01:00:35	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:42	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:45	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "whip.jpg" with ğŸ¼
01:01:04	nflaig:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra fo..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:09	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra ..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:10	Chris:	Reacted to "+1" with â•
01:01:23	Oisin Kyne:	Replying to "I'd rather do less t..."

Would forking the holesky state make things faster for you to get setup @sacha ?
01:01:36	Dustin:	Reacted to "+1, 1 month extra ..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:41	spencer-tb:	Replying to "From myself in EEST,..."

It would be this one, re. old hive engine simulator https://github.com/ethereum/hive/tree/master/simulators/ethereum/engine

Not the entire lifecycle, but the EL <> CL engine integration using real Els and a mock CL
01:01:43	pari,marius&gballet:	Yeah the argument is that we should just do A and forget about D right?
01:01:50	Francesco:	Reacted to "Yeah the argument is..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:53	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Yeah the argument is..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:57	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Yeah the argument is..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:58	Chris:	Reacted to "Yeah the argument ..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:07	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Yeah the argument is..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:10	Matt Nelson:	hmm
01:02:17	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Yeah the argument isâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:02:19	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Yeah the argument is..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:33	nflaig:	we need time as well to safely merge our non-finality solutions we came up with in the last week(s), would be nice to have before mainnet pectra
01:02:35	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Yeah the argument isâ€¦"
Pretty much
01:02:42	Chris:	It sounds like infra providers need to move to the new long lived testnet anyway so it's not like they are saving effort.
01:02:52	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "It sounds like infraâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:02:55	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "It sounds like infra..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:57	Matt Nelson:	Its still a live network for testing right now
01:03:01	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "Pretty much" with ğŸ”¥
01:03:10	Matt Nelson:	Ignores â€œnon validatorâ€ testing
01:03:26	pari,marius&gballet:	Thing is we can still test a lot on holesky, just not everything
01:03:30	Gajinder Singh:	A+D
01:03:32	Matt Nelson:	Yes correct
01:03:33	Oisin Kyne:	Reacted to "Thing is we can stil..." with â•
01:03:34	Matt Nelson:	Its a trade off
01:03:42	nflaig:	option D seems feasible but we should do a poc at least to figure out if that's true
01:03:44	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Thing is we can stilâ€¦" with â•
01:03:49	Oisin Kyne:	Replying to "A+D"

A+B ?
01:03:58	potuz:	+!
01:04:01	potuz:	+1
01:04:02	Marissa Posner:	+1
01:04:07	Francesco:	Reacted to "+1" with ğŸ‘
01:04:14	potuz:	let's forget about this and start deploying Peer-DAS testnets
01:04:23	Oisin Kyne:	Reacted to "let's forget about t..." with â•
01:04:25	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "let's forget about tâ€¦" with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:04:33	Francesco:	Reacted to "let's forget about t..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:04:37	Barnabas:	We can have hoodi config out by tomorrow, and client teams can add hoodi support by end of week next week. Then we could have genesis a week after that and do fork 2 weeks after that. We could then have pectra by 10th of Aprilish
01:04:40	sacha:	Reacted to "let's forget about t..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:04:42	marek:	Reacted to "let's forget about t..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:04:42	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "let's forget about t..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:04:48	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi coâ€¦" with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:04:50	Som - Erigon:	Replying to "From myself in EES..."

So, is old Hive now fully Pectra compatible? I say this because the EEST tests, and consume-rlp tests have done poorly on detecting many crucial issues on Erigon, and I used to rely on Kurtosis tests, but they have been finicky too recently. Thanks.
01:05:01	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi ..." with â¤ï¸ğŸ”¥
01:05:02	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "let's forget about t..."

Peerdas has 60% full nodes now btw, and 2 malicious nodes withholding stuff ğŸ˜„
01:05:03	Oisin Kyne:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi co..." with â•
01:05:11	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "let's forget about t..."

So going full speed on peerdas testing
01:05:12	Ivan Metrikin:	If we go for A, weâ€™d need a few weeks to deploy all Lido-related functionality and tools. And after that is done, weâ€™ll need time to test the actual functionality (both new Pectra things and make sure that the â€œoldâ€ stuff works)  which adds a few weeks on top. So, probably 2 months in total from the moment we have the new testnet available
01:05:21	Trent:	Reacted to "So going full speed ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:05:26	Francis Li:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi ..." with â¤ï¸ğŸ”¥
01:05:28	potuz:	A few weeks?!
01:05:32	sacha:	Reacted to "So going full speed ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:05:41	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi co..." with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:05:46	Oisin Kyne:	Replying to "If we go for A, weâ€™d..."

Would bootstrapping plan A with the holesky EL state + validator set impact timelines for you?
01:06:31	Ivan Metrikin:	If we go for option D, we can do it faster - because weâ€™d need only the Pectra-related testing (without the deploy)
01:07:02	Ivan Metrikin:	Replying to "A few weeks?!"

Yes, because we havenâ€™t had a chance Pectra to test on a functional testnet yet
01:07:11	Dustin:	also at least for Nimbus, can always use arbitrary custom networks, at any time
01:07:32	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "A+D"

D could still be takenup to see the recovery in action + mass slashing by a fixed slasher
01:07:43	potuz:	Ohhhhh
01:07:45	potuz:	thanks Marius
01:08:10	Tim Beiko:	Seems easier to just give many addresses ETH?
01:08:12	Barnabas:	@Ivan Metrikin iirc contract deployment is not time consuming?
01:09:05	Ivan Metrikin:	Replying to "@Ivan Metrikin iirc ..."

It is, because we have lots of dependencies on 3rd parties: oracles, guardians and most importantly NOs (including DVT with both SSV and Obol)
01:09:07	Roman:	no chilling, fusaka next
01:09:20	Ivan Metrikin:	Replying to "@Ivan Metrikin iirc ..."

Sorry contract deployment is not
01:09:38	Ivan Metrikin:	Replying to "@Ivan Metrikin iirc ..."

Misunderstood your question

Contract deployment is indeed not time consuming
01:09:42	Barnabas:	Reacted to "no chilling, fusaka ..." with ğŸš€
01:09:46	Francesco:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜„
01:09:48	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:09:48	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜„
01:09:48	marek:	Reacted to "no chilling, fusaka ..." with ğŸš€
01:09:49	sacha:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜…
01:09:49	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:09:52	marek:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜„
01:09:53	marek:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜…
01:09:53	marek:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:09:54	felix (eest):	Reacted to "no chilling, fusak..." with ğŸš€
01:10:05	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:05	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:08	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	remember that time i suggested a 2 week holiday across all of ACD after pectra forks on mainnet, to just breathe before Fusaka?

and it got like a million +1s?
01:10:18	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi ..." with â•
01:10:18	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "We can have hoodi ..." with â¤ï¸ğŸ”¥
01:10:19	Luca | Serenita:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜„
01:10:28	Trent:	Reacted to "no chilling, fusaka ..." with ğŸš€
01:10:29	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "remember that time i..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:40	nflaig:	Reacted to "Barnabas has sent yo..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:10:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "remember that time i..."

whip.jpg
01:10:42	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜…
01:10:56	potuz:	@justin let's do that after 7732
01:11:11	spencer-tb:	Replying to "From myself in EEST,..."

Yes! Weâ€™ve essentially ported over the following to EEST for faster turnarounds and better integration with the EEST tests:
Consume-rlp = old hive consensus simulator,
Consume-engine = old hive pyspec simulator.
01:11:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "remember that time i..."

are you sure you're not an American? I'm trying to take tips from the French rn.
01:11:20	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

2027 2 week break scheduled!
01:11:30	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

we should just ossify after 7732 ;)
01:11:38	potuz:	Replying to "@justin let's do t..."

nah we'll have 7732 earlier than that
01:11:46	saulius:	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

after year 7732?
01:11:57	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "2027 2 week break sc..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:00	Arik Galansky:	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

Who approves core dev vacations?  I know itâ€™s a theoretical question
01:12:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

only in exchange for encrypted mempools or sealed transactions
01:12:24	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

me. Arik. thats my job.
01:12:29	pari,marius&gballet:	We donâ€™t need to block on client releases imo
01:12:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "@justin let's do tha..."

AND THEY ARE ALL APPROVED.
01:12:32	potuz:	Reacted to "me. Arik. thats my..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:32	Barnabas:	Replying to "remember that time i..."

worse, Iâ€™m eastern european
01:12:37	Dustin:	For Nimbus, probably reasonable to use current release with custom --network
01:12:37	pari,marius&gballet:	We CAN, but donâ€™t NEED releases out by genesis
01:12:42	Gajinder Singh:	Tomasz now ;)
01:12:51	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_..." with ğŸ˜„
01:13:09	spencer-tb:	Replying to "From myself in EEST,..."

Re. crucial issues, if there are areas the tests missed please dm us, as we want coverage for them ğŸ™‚
01:13:32	pari,marius&gballet:	Can do
01:13:41	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Can do" with ğŸ”¥
01:13:41	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Can do" with â¤ï¸â€ğŸ”¥
01:14:16	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:14:19	rodiazet | Ipsilon:	Reacted to "no chilling, fusaka ..." with ğŸš€
01:14:23	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "no chilling, fusaka ..." with ğŸš€
01:14:28	pari,marius&gballet:	Yeah if 11 client devs + ethpandaops have configs up, network will be up and running. Rest can join as/when they want. Over weeks we can have releases.
01:14:29	rodiazet | Ipsilon:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:14:35	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Yeah if 11 client de..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:39	marek:	Reacted to "Yeah if 11 client de..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:45	potuz:	Reacted to "Yeah if 11 client ..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:45	Barnabas:	feature completeness - which I think we should have.
01:14:48	marek:	Replying to "Yeah if 11 client de..."

yes, let's not wait for releases
01:14:56	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "Yeah if 11 client de..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:45	pari,marius&gballet:	Genesis + like 10d-ish is fine I think
01:15:49	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Genesis + like 10d-i..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:50	potuz:	Genesis + couple of days
01:15:57	sacha:	Reacted to "Genesis + like 10d-i..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:04	potuz:	Better to test Electra than prepare for the fork
01:16:11	potuz:	Electra testing time is useful
01:16:35	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "Yes! Weâ€™ve essent..." with â¤ï¸ğŸ”¥
01:17:22	kasey:	Replying to "remember that time i..."

https://imgflip.com/i/9n9dch
01:17:33	Matt Nelson:	Reacted to "https://imgflip.com/..." with ğŸ‰
01:18:14	Chris:	What do we learn from Hooli we dont learn from Sepolia or Holesky/
01:18:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "https://imgflip.com/..." with ğŸ¤£
01:18:36	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "What do we learn fro..."

Exits testing by external parties like lsts
01:18:38	Barnabas:	we also have other staking operators, that might not even know hoodi is happening. I think 10 days is fair
01:19:02	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "we also have other..." with â•
01:19:08	potuz:	@ivan but you can still test a bunch of things just not exits on Holesky
01:19:21	Chris:	Replying to "What do we learn f..."

Apologies I meant why fork Hooli immediately when we can test Electra on Sepolia
01:19:32	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "@ivan but you can st..."

Exactly, while lido waits on external dependencies they can still test a large chunk of features on holesky @Ivan Metrikin
01:19:39	Barnabas:	Replying to "What do we learn fro..."

large operators wanna test their code during fork transition
01:19:52	Barnabas:	Replying to "What do we learn fro..."

so that requires them to needing to deploy contracts
01:19:54	Arik Galansky:	Given this conversation - for the teams that need to plan for after pectra mainnet activities - does this mean we have a â€œnot before dateâ€? 

Even if we donâ€™t have a defined fork date? Can we assume itâ€™s not in April but moved to May or is that a premature assumption? (Itâ€™s not very convenient to always be on a 30 day warning)
01:20:33	nflaig:	what's the purpose of holesky after this? can't we just mess around and try option D there?
01:20:38	Chris:	Replying to "What do we learn f..."

I'm saying I think we should delay the fork on Hooli rather than getting extra electra testing time as we can get that from Sepolia/Holesky/Devnet-6
01:20:48	potuz:	Pari will @andrew
01:20:55	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Pari will @andrew" with â¤ï¸
01:21:11	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "Pari will @andrew" with â¤ï¸
01:21:39	Chris:	Reacted to "we also have other..." with â•
01:21:41	Barnabas:	1.2M validator keys
50k validators keys per staking provider
50k validators keys per client teams. 

So approx 5-10 machines per client team/staking providers
01:23:05	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	what about some money on genesis for some staking providers in Hoodi? We need to spin up a lot of validators just to test limits for example
01:23:24	Roman:	how does one spell â€Hoodieâ€œ?
01:23:28	Matt Nelson:	Pectra is wed the 26th on Hood?
01:23:33	Matt Nelson:	And launch monday 24
01:23:37	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "how does one spell â€..."

Hoodi ğŸ˜„
01:23:37	Barnabas:	Replying to "how does one spell â€..."

its hoodi
01:23:40	Barnabas:	Replying to "how does one spell â€..."

not hoodie ğŸ˜„
01:23:44	Tim Beiko:	Launch Mar 17
01:23:46	Tim Beiko:	Fork Mar 26
01:23:48	Matt Nelson:	Whoops
01:23:50	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "how does one spell â€..."

Testnets need to be hard to spell, its tradition
01:23:50	Matt Nelson:	Ty tim
01:24:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "what about some mone..."

we gonna use the same keys as for holesky, probably the same eth amounts too. Would that be sufficient?
01:24:24	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "what about some mone..."

Might not be same keys @Barnabas we can discuss that on our call later.
01:24:53	Barnabas:	Replying to "what about some mone..."

ğŸ‘
01:25:08	Barnabas:	Replying to "what about some mone..."

coordinating a new issue, by monday going to be very difficult.
01:25:24	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Replying to "what about some mo..."

if we got the same value (1m) to the same address- yeah, it will be ok for us
01:25:32	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "what about some mone..."

If not we can give you said eth
01:26:02	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "If not we can give..." with â¤ï¸
01:27:25	potuz:	@pari Prysm will want genesis keys for Hoodie
01:27:35	spencer-tb:	Did we settle for ABI decoding over hardcoded?
01:27:43	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	No that discussion is async
01:28:03	pari,marius&gballet:	Replying to "@pari Prysm will wan..."

Sounds good, we can send you a mnemonic
01:28:36	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9460
01:28:41	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ™
01:28:51	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Yes thanks that one is also the ABI decoding vs hardcoded one ^
01:29:00	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	I'll join monday testing call as well for this point
01:29:08	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9378
01:29:23	potuz:	Replying to "@pari Prysm will w..."

Thanks cc @preston
01:29:56	Francesco:	Felixâ€™s proposal seems good yeah
01:30:01	Preston Van Loon:	Replying to "@pari Prysm will wan..."

will follow up on telegram
01:30:02	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "I'll join monday tes..." with ğŸ™
01:30:06	pari,marius&gballet:	Reacted to "I'll join monday tes..." with ğŸ™
01:30:07	Francis Li:	Reacted to "Felixâ€™s proposal ..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:10	potuz:	Replying to "@pari Prysm will w..."

We'd take as many keys as you can give  us
01:30:13	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/630
01:32:59	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	same schedule?
01:33:10	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	:+1:
01:33:53	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Push out preferences, keep eip door closed?
01:35:24	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	So EIP that can't be presented today because we are out of time don't get another change before the deadline ???
01:36:04	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Such as in breakout calls?  - Hereâ€™s what william morris presented to the EOF call for PAY - https://youtu.be/ay58x4yv9kc?si=-Fe1b_Q0NXeWDIH1&t=2053
01:37:23	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	DFI means not now, not no in general
01:38:41	Tim Beiko:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/636
01:40:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	error code 4444 rly?
01:40:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	never change dudes
01:40:21	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "no chilling, fusaka ..." with ğŸš€
01:40:24	marek:	yeah, I like this idea
01:40:24	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜„
01:40:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_03_13_160254.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:40:37	marek:	Reacted to "error code 4444 rly?" with ğŸ˜
01:41:04	Felix:	Geth is working on a testing tool to make sure the new error is returned correctly
01:41:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	bye all
