00:01:43	Fredrik:	gm
00:01:47	felipe:	gm
00:05:13	Louis:	Gm testers
00:05:41	nixo:	Reacted to "Gm testers" with âš’ï¸
00:05:47	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Gm testers" with âš’ï¸
00:05:56	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Gm testers" with âš’ï¸
00:06:04	Katya Riazantseva:	did we shut down fusaka-devnet-3?
00:06:13	Barnabas:	Replying to "did we shut down fus..."

no
00:06:15	felix (eest):	hello chat
00:06:28	Barnabas:	Replying to "did we shut down fus..."

https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io
00:06:36	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "hello chat" with ğŸ‘‹
00:06:40	Barnabas:	Reacted to "hello chat" with ğŸ‘‹
00:07:04	Katya Riazantseva:	Reacted to "hello chat" with ğŸ‘‹
00:13:18	Barnabas:	reth builder flags: https://github.com/ethpandaops/fusaka-devnets/blob/master/ansible/inventories/devnet-3/host_vars/mev-relay-1.yaml#L178-L188
00:13:32	Bharath:	Reacted to "reth builder flags: ..." with ğŸ‘
00:13:42	James He:	Have people already updated for remote signer needs? ( web3signer) opened https://github.com/ethereum/remote-signing-api/issues/20  

I think we just need to handle fulu block as a version but reached out to uzi from web3signer
00:15:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "Have people already ..."

we havenâ€™t verified web3signer or other external signer
00:18:40	Bharath:	Can you point to any repo related to this @marek
00:18:55	Barnabas:	is it fulu ready?
00:19:00	marek:	Replying to "Can you point to any..."

https://collective.flashbots.net/t/announcing-multi-client-support-for-rbuilder/4895
00:19:15	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "Have people already ..."

We have it going on in a PR.
00:20:19	marek:	Replying to "is it fulu ready?"

More testing would be appreciated, a devnet sounds perfect for this
00:20:30	nixo:	important question: which striped animal is fusakaâ€™s emoji? ğŸ¦“ or ğŸ… ?
00:20:53	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ˜†
00:20:54	Barnabas:	Replying to "important question: ..."

ğŸ¦“
00:20:56	Ben Adams:	Feedback was that 16M was fine?  https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7987-transaction-gas-limit-cap-at-2-24/24746/22
00:21:04	nixo:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ¦“
00:21:05	marek:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:05	Mario Vega:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7987-transaction-gas-limit-cap-at-2-24/24746/21
00:21:09	nixo:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ…
00:21:17	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Yes, we keep it as-is
00:21:28	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ…
00:21:32	nixo:	Reacted to "ğŸ¦“" with â•
00:21:35	Francesco:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ¦“
00:21:40	Luca | Serenita:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ¦“
00:21:44	Barnabas:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ¦“
00:21:44	nflaig:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ¦“
00:21:50	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "important question: ..."

ğŸ… ğŸ˜›
00:22:47	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to important question: ... with "ğŸ¦“"
00:22:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "ğŸ¦“" with â•
00:23:54	James He:	Reacted to "we havenâ€™t verified ..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:10	James He:	Replying to "Have people already ..."

We have one too just for the block wasnâ€™t sure if something else was neeeded
00:24:18	Ben Adams:	60M update before fusaka? ğŸ¤”
00:24:20	Danno Ferrin:	Reacted to "important question: ..." with ğŸ¦“
00:24:22	Danno Ferrin:	Reacted to "ğŸ¦“" with â•
00:24:24	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "60M update before fu..." with ğŸ‘€
00:24:34	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "60M update before fu..." with ğŸ‘€
00:24:38	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "60M update before fu..." with ğŸ‘€
00:25:27	Parithosh Jayanthi:	I canâ€™t speak, but the geth team also said it would take some time to upstream such changes if they even decide to go down this route. So it wonâ€™t be something that would help us out asap.
00:25:47	Louis:	Related issue: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/issues/1976
00:26:10	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Related issue: https..." with ğŸ™ğŸ¼
00:26:21	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Related issue: https..." with ğŸ™ğŸ¼
00:27:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Depends on the timeline, but yes the next step would likely be 60M
00:28:32	Agnish Ghosh:	Is it a good idea to get a builder api release out?
00:28:39	Agnish Ghosh:	/a good time?
00:29:05	Louis:	Related PR: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/pull/1983 for gas limit configuration for release
00:31:24	Louis:	It seems to be safe for current gas cost
00:32:09	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4476
00:33:43	Barnabas:	**shouldnâ€™t** famous last words ğŸ˜‚
00:34:18	pawan:	Will review it soon. Looks good on the first glance
00:34:31	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Will review it soon...." with ğŸ™ğŸ¼
00:35:07	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Will review it soon...." with ğŸ™ğŸ¼
00:35:38	Jae Hee Lee:	https://testinprod.notion.site/Sunnyside-Devnet-Updates-08-04-2458fc57f546808ab2c9e34480e0b7a9?source=copy_link
00:35:43	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4477
00:35:45	Jae Hee Lee:	Can we discuss Sunnyside Labs Report?
00:36:15	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Can we discuss Sunny..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:36:37	Parithosh Jayanthi:	It was also sort of tied into if we would increase tx limit per tx
00:36:47	stokes:	i think we leave alone for now
00:36:47	Parithosh Jayanthi:	If we needed a new devnet there, then we wanted to do both together
00:36:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "i think we leave alo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:36:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to i think we leave alo... with "ğŸ‘ğŸ½"
00:36:57	Barnabas:	Reacted to "i think we leave alo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:36:58	nixo:	Reacted to "i think we leave alo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:37:02	pawan:	Against the change as well
00:37:22	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "i think we leave alo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:37:25	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "i think we leave alo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:37:43	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	It's not a bad idea but too late in the process now and not urgent enough
00:38:03	Francesco:	Given that there wonâ€™t otherwise be a new devnet, I would rather leave it as is
00:38:11	Barnabas:	potuz/tersec/nflaig?
00:39:03	nflaig:	slightly for the change but I can see why we don't wanna do it this late in the process
00:39:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	If anything Iâ€™d say we do it in glamsterdam
00:39:17	RaÃºl Kripalani:	BPOs were designed to not include any code changes
00:39:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "If anything Iâ€™d say ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:39:33	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "If anything Iâ€™d say ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:40:40	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "i think we leave alo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:41:35	Barnabas:	node operators can always yeet their db
00:41:41	Barnabas:	so its not really an argument
00:41:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	It can be like history, tell them to resync if they need the benefit immediately
00:42:00	Barnabas:	its also a very small percentage of users that would be affected.
00:42:13	Parithosh Jayanthi:	I think we still wanted devnet-4 right? Just to see a perfect transition without any bugs
00:42:20	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Just no spec changes in the devnet
00:42:35	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we still wan..."

I think we can discuss that later
00:42:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think we can discu..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:42:41	Jae Hee Lee:	https://testinprod.notion.site/Sunnyside-Devnet-Updates-08-04-2458fc57f546808ab2c9e34480e0b7a9?source=copy_link
00:42:48	Matthew Keil:	Replying to "I think we still wan..."

I agree with Pari
00:43:06	Bharath:	Reacted to "I think we still wan..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:19	Barnabas:	We are looking to do a shadowfork sometime next week. Ideally we should have stablish branches from clients.
00:43:26	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We are looking to do..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:44:37	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "We are looking to do..."

Yep hopefully should be bug-free by then.
00:44:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "We are looking to do..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:44:53	Francesco:	(Specifically because itâ€™s just not enough for the CL propagation path to work for supernodes, we know it needs more bandwidth than 100/50, even in theory)
00:48:28	Francesco:	Do we need this to work? I think it would also be ok to just say that if no one can serve you your columns, you canâ€™t sync
00:49:06	Barnabas:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

so basically we accept that nobody can reconstruct?
00:49:13	Barnabas:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

so whats the point of having 128 columns at all?
00:49:17	Manu:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

I will be definitely more confident if this perfect peerdas sync works.
00:49:19	Barnabas:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

we could just do 64 columns, and call it a day
00:49:26	Francesco:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

There are no supernodes in this devnet
00:49:38	Francesco:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

Supernodes would reconstruct
00:50:08	Barnabas:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

we havenâ€™t verified that either yet
00:50:27	Manu:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

The main issue I see if we donâ€™t do that is:
A full node will sync
A node with validators wonâ€™t sync
00:50:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	We also donâ€™t have to ship fusaka releases with support for 72 out of the gate
00:50:55	Agnish Ghosh:	exactly
00:50:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	We could do these things later and then decide the bpo to go that high
00:51:03	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "We also donâ€™t have t..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:07	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "We could do these th..."

I agree
00:51:12	Manu:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

The question is not â€œis there enough super nodes in the networkâ€ but â€œis there enough super nodes in OUR peers"
00:52:24	Francesco:	Well, you donâ€™t need supernodes in your peers, you just need someone that has your columns
00:52:52	Manu:	Thatâ€™s true.
00:53:03	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "Well, you donâ€™t need..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:04	Francesco:	Another way to say it would be: do you need to be able to sync if you canâ€™t find any subnet peers? How would you even stay on the network without subnet peers?
00:53:08	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Do we need this to w..."

i think yes. it gives us better load distribution when resolving non-finality
00:53:34	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "I think we still wan..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:37	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "We could do these th..."

Right we scale upto 20 blobs, itâ€™d be nice to scale upto 30+ blobs for Fusaka? 72 is insanely aggressive imo
00:54:26	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I agree" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:54:39	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We could do these th..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:54:54	RaÃºl Kripalani:	isn't this a scheduling problem? i.e. if clients can do this reconstruction during idle time, it seems worth it
00:55:33	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "isn't this a schedul..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:55	Minhyuk Kim:	Reacted to "isn't this a schedul..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:12	Manu:	2 different issues
00:56:14	Francesco:	Yeah itâ€™s not related to blob throughput
00:56:24	Agnish Ghosh:	Different issues
00:56:52	RaÃºl Kripalani:	yeah this is an issue about resilience / functional guarantees of DAS
00:56:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "yeah this is an issu..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:57:03	Manu:	Reacted to "yeah this is an issu..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:57:05	Barnabas:	Reacted to "yeah this is an issu..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:57:31	Francesco:	To be clear, I am not saying this is useless (though I havenâ€™t thought through exactly how much it helps in general), just wondering if we need all clients to implement it before Fusaka
00:57:33	Manu:	I wish we do not need this feature.
But I prefer to be prepared in case we need it...
00:57:47	Minhyuk Kim:	In larger networks like mainnet, is it highly(or enough) likely that a syncing full node will reliably hit a peer which custodies a column  identical to itself? Given the larger number of available peers and supernodes?
00:57:53	Barnabas:	I agree on Francesco that its not a must have during finality, but during non finality, we might have some non finality scenarios where we do need this feature
00:58:12	Agnish Ghosh:	Replying to "I agree on Francesco..."

We definitely need this feature
00:58:20	Manu:	Prysm: ETA end of week
00:58:27	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Prysm: ETA end of we..." with ğŸ”¥
00:58:41	RaÃºl Kripalani:	i think this is part of the broader topic of reconstruction (and which scenarios trigger it and when)
00:58:47	Francesco:	Fwiw itâ€™s not obvious to me that this isnâ€™t going to end up causing problems because all of a sudden everyone is requesting way more columns than they normally do
00:59:03	Agnish Ghosh:	We do we use this feature at times, for short range syncing, and sometimes even while gossip
00:59:06	Francesco:	Replying to "Fwiw itâ€™s not obviou..."

e.g. network has issues, and then they are compounded because everyone is trying to get 64 columns to reconstruct
00:59:10	Barnabas:	you would only request more columns if the requested columns are not available
00:59:23	Francesco:	Replying to "you would only reque..."

Yeah, so likely when the network is already stressed
00:59:42	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "Fwiw itâ€™s not obviou..."

i'd rather hit those issues sooner to understand how clients are rate limiting column requests (and decide how to harden)
01:00:08	Minhyuk Kim:	Iâ€™m personally curious about the implementation of validator custody backfill for fusaka. Given further devnet/testnet upcoming, will it be included in future devnet requirement?
01:00:20	Agnish Ghosh:	Ideally even for gossip we gossip accept 65 columns, pass DA and reconstruct only when nimbus is the most idle through the slot, the last 3 seconds
01:00:31	pawan:	Tbh, Iâ€™m not fully convinced that this is required. Will talk about it async a bit after exploring it a bit
01:00:38	Manu:	Backfill: Prysm in progress
01:00:43	Manu:	(soonTM)
01:00:44	pawan:	Same for lighthouse
01:00:53	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "(soonTM)" with â„¢ï¸
01:00:54	Agnish Ghosh:	In progress
01:01:01	Minhyuk Kim:	Reacted to "(soonTM)" with â„¢ï¸
01:01:07	felix (eest):	Reacted to "(soonTM)" with â„¢ï¸
01:01:10	Agnish Ghosh:	We can wait sure
01:01:11	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "(soonTM)" with â„¢ï¸
01:02:25	pawan:	I donâ€™t think it needs to be quick
01:02:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think it nee..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:03:37	Barnabas:	update it once an epoch should be fine?
01:03:42	Francesco:	Reacted to "update it once an ep..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:47	Matthew Keil:	Our design is to backfill and updateearliest available slot on a epoch by epoch basis
01:04:59	Agnish Ghosh:	Reacted to "Our design is to bac..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:01	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Our design is to bac..." with ğŸ‘
