00:05:33	wolovim:	gm
00:05:37	Yassine Ferhane:	gm
00:05:37	Pooja Ranjan:	gm
00:05:41	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:07:40	jochem-brouwer:	gm
00:09:53	Louis:	Replying to "gm"

Gm
00:10:45	James He:	We have a new release out so if people can upgrade ğŸ˜…
00:10:58	James He:	Prysm v6.1.2
00:11:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "Prysm v6.1.2"

blog is updated
00:12:19	Barnabas:	Any other teamâ€™s got an update that we are missing?
00:12:40	James He:	Replying to "Prysm v6.1.2"

ğŸ‘
00:12:40	Barnabas:	I guess LH rc 1?
00:14:00	Barnabas:	Lh/besu/grandine do we expect a stable release before hoodi?
00:14:16	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-10-13 at 16.06.16.png"

For besu, weâ€™ll have a new release this week to handle 60 mgas for Hoodi and mainnet
00:15:25	Barnabas:	ğŸ¦—
00:15:34	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "ğŸ¦—" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:49	Mario Vega:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/688075293562503241/1425748011438575719
00:17:05	Barnabas:	https://github.com/eth-clients/hoodi/pull/23 
https://github.com/eth-clients/sepolia/pull/119 
https://github.com/eth-clients/holesky/pull/136
00:17:51	Barnabas:	@Marius van der Wijden can I get your blessing?
00:18:26	Marius van der Wijden:	Blessing granted
00:18:37	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Blessing granted" with â™¥ï¸
00:19:02	marek:	Reacted to "Blessing granted" with â™¥ï¸
00:19:13	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Blessing granted" with â™¥ï¸
00:20:03	felipe:	Reacted to "ğŸ¦—" with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:13	CPerezz:	Nice work Kamil!
00:21:19	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:21:25	Louis:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with â¤ï¸
00:21:27	Louis:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:21:27	Marc:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:21:27	Jen:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:21:40	felipe:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:21:43	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:23:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸˆ
00:23:08	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:23:48	Bhargava:	Reacted to Nice work Kamil! with "ğŸ’¯"
00:24:26	CPerezz:	XEN is also bigger in Bloatnet. Though depth is expected to be the same TBH.. As avg depth of XEN is already 8-9. So we would need to bloat it insanely to make a diff
00:24:47	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:26:48	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:26:51	jochem-brouwer:	Yes any worst case scenario for any client should be part of the benchmark test suite (so we can keep track of this performance over time). So if a client notices a specific scenario, please contact us, we will implement it in the benchmark suite :)
00:27:18	Louis:	Reacted to "Yes any worst case s..." with â¤ï¸
00:27:30	marek:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸ’¯
00:27:32	marek:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with ğŸˆ
00:27:34	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Yes any worst case s..." with â¤ï¸
00:27:34	marek:	Reacted to "Nice work Kamil!" with â¤ï¸
00:27:38	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Yes any worst case s..." with â¤ï¸
00:28:01	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Yes any worst case s..." with â¤ï¸
00:28:38	Louis:	Replying to "Yes any worst case s..."

Anyone who have an interesting case could also drop a comment in this issue!
https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/issues/1577
00:28:46	Marcin Sobczak:	AA40 over verificationGasLimit
00:29:00	Marcin Sobczak:	https://etherscan.io/tx/0x1010c2cbd31e3c46e512670bfc41f995a4811fc1bbceb62363d4a712dabc1b10
00:30:07	felipe:	Reacted to "Yes any worst case..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:30	felipe:	Reacted to "Yes any worst case..." with â•
00:31:42	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Anyone who have an..." met ğŸš€
00:31:46	raxhvl:	Latest test results for release v1.2.0:
1. ğŸ† Besu: 80/90 (89%)
2. Reth: 67/90 (74%)
3. Geth: 64/90 (71%)
4. Nethermind: 63/90 (70%)
00:32:02	felipe:	Reacted to "Latest test result..." with ğŸ’¯
00:32:05	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Latest test results ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:32:37	Barnabas:	stefan your mic is super echoy
00:33:24	draganrakita:	All tests passing is good step before devnet
00:33:44	RaÃºl Kripalani:	i think it's a different raul?
00:33:46	Jared Wasinger:	Rahul are you running those tests with bal-devnet-0 branch of geth? From my side, 2 tests fail locally with the master branch as of 12 hours ago.  One of these is one that I flagged as being an incorrect test.
00:33:55	Mario Vega:	Replying to "i think it's a diffe..."

Sorry yes I meant Rahul
00:34:04	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Sorry yes I meant Ra..." with ğŸ˜…
00:34:29	Stefan Starflinger:	Replying to "stefan your mic is s..."

sorry forgot to connect my airpods in time
00:34:50	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "stefan your mic is s..." with ğŸ¥¹
00:34:59	raxhvl:	https://pokebal.raxhvl.com/
00:35:04	Mario Vega:	https://pokebal.raxhvl.com/
00:35:24	marek:	Replying to "https://pokebal.raxh..."

I like the site name
00:35:29	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I like the site name" with ğŸ‘
00:36:05	CPerezz:	Reacted to "https://pokebal.raxh..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:17	felipe:	Replying to "Rahul are you runn..."

Can you confirm which test this is that you flagged
00:37:22	Mario Vega:	https://ethresear.ch/t/ethereum-needs-standards-punk/23151
00:38:24	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to https://ethresear.ch... with "ğŸ‘"
00:39:59	felipe:	I think I see it, the SSTORE case?
00:40:11	Bumblefudge:	I also think that eth community often thinks of solidity as the "business logic" layer and browser/wallets/clients/dapps as the "client layer", and that entire disjointed pile of chaos is entirely interacting just via RPC...
00:41:32	Bumblefudge:	or maybe the clients care about hive, but if they are confident the test is wrong and incentives aren't there to fix the test for everyone...
00:41:40	Åukasz Rozmej:	We have consensus on Ethereum as a protocol, we don't have consensus for RPC calls
00:41:53	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to We have consensus on... with "ğŸ‘"
00:41:59	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "We have consensus on..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:05	felix (eest):	Reacted to "We have consensus ..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:38	Jared Wasinger:	Replying to "Rahul are you runnin..."

Yes
00:42:45	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We have consensus on..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:11	felipe:	Reacted to "Yes" with ğŸ‘
00:43:25	Jared Wasinger:	Replying to "Rahul are you runnin..."

it's the  bal_sstore_and_oog  with the  oog_at_sstore  case
00:43:26	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "We have consensus ..."

But RPC standardization is somewhat in the works right? RPC Standards call in 23 mins
00:43:32	felipe:	Reacted to "it's the  bal_ssto..." with ğŸ’¯
00:43:35	felipe:	Reacted to "it's the  bal_ssto..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:36	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "We have consensus on..."

very basic one
00:43:47	felipe:	Replying to "Rahul are you runn..."

Yep, just catching up there. Thanks.
00:44:04	felipe:	We will try to get this in on a patch release early this week
00:44:06	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/650/files   https://github.com/simsonraj/execution-apis/blob/527bb9af49ba12bbed37cc36d4cfe42048cd114e/src/extensions/README.md  dropping the links for proposal on error codes standardisation, we need feedback from client teams and community in general in respect to this.
00:44:32	Bumblefudge:	Replying to "We have consensus on..." 

 that call isn't on the calendar, is it open to public?
00:44:53	spencer-tb:	Can we make it an EIP? If the community care enough it should get shipped right?
00:44:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	there is a channel in the discord, and recurring calls to discuss as a working group
00:45:01	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Replying to "We have consensus on..."

https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1758
00:45:03	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "We have consensus ..."

https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1758 
eth/pm issue for the call :)
00:45:10	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "https://github.com..." met ğŸ‘
00:45:32	Bumblefudge:	Reacted to https://github.com/e... with "ğŸ‘"
00:46:02	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Mercy is doing a great job running the calls, and it is an excellent entry point for Ethereum contributors.
00:46:14	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Mercy is doing a gre..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:15	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Mercy is doing a gre..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:15	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we make it an EI..."

This !
00:46:20	felipe:	Reacted to "https://github.com..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:28	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we make it an EI..."

But it probably should be rest based at this point
00:46:38	felipe:	Reacted to "Mercy is doing a g..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:05	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Reacted to "Mercy is doing a gre..." with â¤ï¸
00:47:05	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Besu fleet mode is a very "near head" scenario
00:47:14	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "But it probably shou..." with ğŸ‘€
00:48:05	Jen:	Reacted to "Mercy is doing a gre..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:28	FLCL:	During those few RPC related calls there was feeling we were not in sync enough with API consumers, who are not on such calls
00:49:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "During those few RPC..." with â•
00:49:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	also somewhat connected to what Marius said:

As we scale more, especially with zkEVM soon, RPC nodes will need to specialize a lot to remain performant. So any next generation standards should be designed with awareness of that future
00:50:03	FLCL:	Another thing that might be interesting to explore imho is to write hive tests by devs
00:50:24	Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR]:	Reacted to also somewhat connec... with "ğŸ‘"
00:50:29	Felix (Geth):	@FLCL can you explain?
00:50:34	Felix (Geth):	the tests are written by devs?
00:51:08	keri:	We need client devs to attend the RPC meetings so we can have these conversations and get consensus ğŸ™‚
00:51:32	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to We need client devs ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:51:59	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "We need client devs ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:00	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Reacted to "We need client devs ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:02	FLCL:	Replying to "the tests are writte..."

Me as dev don't do so ğŸ˜…
00:52:22	wolovim:	Reacted to "We need client devs ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:47	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We need client devs ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:56	FLCL:	Like those devs who add features to a EL and mostly contribute to specific EL tests
00:53:36	Åukasz Rozmej:	Tests are generated from geth, all error codes are in those files?
00:54:06	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we should talk about it on ACDE - the problem is bigger than devs not being on the rpc calls - even when they are, the path from consensus on a call to a MERGED pr into a spec remains unclear
00:54:26	keri:	Reacted to "we should talk about..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:37	Jen:	Reacted to "we should talk about..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:19	Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR]:	Reacted to we should talk about... with "ğŸ‘"
00:55:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "we should talk about..."

it needs to be an EIP, it needs to have a champion, and it needs someone that canâ€™t burn out
00:56:10	Barnabas:	Replying to "we should talk about..."

its a thankless job, but can be done
00:56:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "we should talk about..."

you need to find someone who fits all that and also wouldn't rather work on something more interesting
00:56:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "we should talk about..."

The only way I can see us moving to an actual rpc standard if we block devnets on this EIP
00:57:03	felix (eest):	Reacted to "we should talk abo..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:19	keri:	Replying to "Can we make it an EI..."

Iâ€™d vote for simple changes first - consensus on RPC methods rather than a big change to rest
00:57:34	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Tests are generated ..."

So I assume not, so Geth is the spec ;)@Felix (Geth)
00:57:49	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we make it an EI..."

sounds like 2 step pain vs 1 step pain
00:58:32	Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR]:	Replying to "we should talk about..." 

 It seems we're trying to fit a standards process into an existing EIP process. At least to some people who worked on standards, that doesn't seem to be the recommendable way to go:
https://learningproof.xyz/lifecycle-of-a-blockchain-standard/
00:58:51	Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR]:	Replying to "we should talk about..." 

 (I know this is painfully meta)
00:59:20	Åukasz Rozmej:	getLogs are problematic as they are very stateful
01:00:00	Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR]:	It's impossible to test these flaky logs for large ranges. We don't have a public test repo for that.
01:00:11	Felix (Geth):	it's not impossible!
01:00:24	Felix (Geth):	we are in control of the test chain, so we can just generate a longer test chain
01:00:42	Sebastian BÃ¼rgel [Gnosis/HOPR]:	Can someone share the link for the next call?
01:00:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1758
01:01:01	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1758
01:01:10	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "It's impossible to t..."

we want to create a testing pipeline to sync multiple clients and do fuzz testing on eth_getLogs, but having hard time proritizing it, but should be done in not too much time
01:01:20	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it's also listed on the Eth calendar, and in the json-rpc-api channel on the eth R&D discord
01:01:27	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "It's impossible to t..."

compare eth_getLogs responses between clients
01:01:37	Justin Florentine (Besu):	zoom link: https://www.google.com/url?q=https://ethereumfoundation.zoom.us/j/87943719720?pwd%3Dvq7rARW8AjizhE2bj1ds3oQM0OWDyQ.1&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1760798516199411&usg=AOvVaw3jSKlyiBS7m4sp4nX76uFK
01:01:50	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "It's impossible to..."

Geth has a fuzzer for this, but we are also not running it against multiple clients
01:01:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "It's impossible to t..."

but hardfork season is making resources stretched
01:02:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "It's impossible to t..."

@Felix (Geth) we should do it then!
01:02:27	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "It's impossible to t..."

Can you point us to it?
01:02:34	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "It's impossible to..."

I'm searching for link
01:02:39	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "It's impossible to..."

Will get back to you about this offline
01:03:00	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Will get back to you..." with ğŸ‘
