00:05:15	Dmitry Gusakov:	Hi there
00:05:54	Etan (Nimbus):	Reacted to "Hi there" with ğŸ˜ƒ
00:06:02	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:06:14	Pooja Ranjan:	gm
00:08:29	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1754
00:10:05	Kalo | Obol:	On obol side we missed bumping some nodesâ€¦ pardon for that
00:10:40	Justin Traglia:	Pretty cool that it worked as well as it did with RPC ğŸ˜…
00:11:32	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Pretty cool that it ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:11:58	Ameziane Hamlat:	@Enrico Del Fante (tbenr) Was that issue related to the behaviour we saw on the drop in network activity on besu/teku validators on Holesky ?
00:12:00	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "Pretty cool that it ..."

RPC+EL seems pretty reliable
00:12:09	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "RPC+EL seems pretty ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:12:52	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "@Enrico Del Fante (t..."

Not sure TBH
00:12:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	anyone know what L2s were affected by this?  https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/10/15/fusaka-blob-update
00:13:19	Koen (Aztec):	Reacted to "anyone know what L2s..." with âœ‹
00:13:25	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "@Enrico Del Fante (t..."

The node manages to get everything via EL and send them out anyway.. so not sure actually
00:13:33	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "RPC+EL seems pretty ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:14:11	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "The node manages to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:14:16	Åukasz Rozmej:	Nethermind is considering enabling conversion like Geth has. We generally have the code for it already.
00:14:39	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "Nethermind is consid..." 

 Hidden behind a flag
00:14:43	Marius van der Wijden:	Tbh most rollups have learned about it this week
00:14:46	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Nethermind is consid..."

both for sumbiting through eth_sendTransaction and those in TxPool
00:14:50	Etan (Nimbus):	Reacted to "Tbh most rollups hav..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:11	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "Tbh most rollups h..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:15	Peter:	Replying to "Tbh most rollups hav..."

We learned about it from last weekâ€™s ACDE call
00:15:16	Dustin:	is there a way to ensure that some testing occurs before it's last-minute in future forks?
00:15:23	Trent:	Audio a bit bad marius
00:15:27	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Tbh most rollups hav..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:34	stokes:	Replying to "is there a way to en..."

devnets
00:15:40	stokes:	Replying to "is there a way to en..."

Let me say something
00:15:43	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Audio a bit bad mari..." with â•
00:15:49	Ben Edgington:	MicDAO
00:15:52	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Audio a bit bad mari..." with â•
00:15:58	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "MicDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:16:01	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "MicDAO" with ğŸ”¥
00:16:18	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "MicDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:16:44	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Nethermind is consid..."

@Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind we might change defaults for it
00:16:46	nixo:	re: andrewâ€™s question - why was there a â€œmekongâ€ for pectra but not for other forks?
00:17:04	Etan (Nimbus):	Replying to "re: andrewâ€™s questio..."

there was also a zhejiang for shanghai
00:17:05	Peter (Scroll):	Testing on shadowfork networks would be easier than redeploying on devnets
00:17:10	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Audio a bit bad mari..." 

 Sorry, am in a loud cafe
00:17:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "re: andrewâ€™s questio..."

We used to have 2 testnets, this time we had 3 and didnâ€™t want to have a 4th
00:17:23	nixo:	Reacted to "We used to have 2 te..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:36	nixo:	Reacted to "there was also a zhe..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "MicDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:13	stokes:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/blob-retrieval-guarantee-post-fusaka/25822
00:19:20	Dustin:	this isn't super-avoidable, past a 2x factor
00:19:25	Dustin:	it's just how 1D peerdas works
00:19:39	Dustin:	one needs an "almost-supernode" regardless
00:19:40	terence:	if the blob is public, you can get it from the EL mempool as well
00:20:06	Etan (Nimbus):	Replying to "if the blob is publi..."

do the testnets have mevboost / private transactions?
00:20:16	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "one needs an "almost..."

light supernode > sidekick node? ğŸ¤”
00:20:25	Dustin:	that's 2D peerdas
00:20:28	Francesco:	One note is that itâ€™s a problem thatâ€™s meant to be resolved with cell-level messaging and row subnets
00:20:36	Francesco:	Replying to "One note is that itâ€™..."

You donâ€™t need any 2D for this
00:20:40	Ansgar Dietrichs:	in general blobs are not meant as the propagation layer for L2s, just as a publishing guarantee. L2s are meant to have their own propagation mechanisms on top, with L1 just as integrity guarantee
00:20:41	Dustin:	2D peerdas was repeatedly rejected
00:20:49	Francesco:	Replying to "2D peerdas was repea..."

2D is not related to this
00:20:50	Etan (Nimbus):	Replying to "One note is that itâ€™..."

â€œ2Dâ€ meaning cells, no more supernodes.

not meaning â€œFullDASâ€, in this context, I think
00:21:02	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to in general blobs are... with "â•"
00:21:03	Francesco:	Replying to "One note is that itâ€™..."

Well itâ€™s still 1D so letâ€™s not call it that?
00:21:05	potuz:	we're working on implementation of this: custody the minimal but sampling from 64 so as to recover the blobs and returning  them
00:21:14	Dustin:	Replying to "2D peerdas was rep..."

well, need access to rows
00:21:14	potuz:	so it doesn't signal it but it saves
00:21:24	Dustin:	Replying to "2D peerdas was rep..."

i.e. cells
00:21:26	Francesco:	Replying to "2D peerdas was repea..."

Sure but thereâ€™s no 2D encoding
00:22:16	Manu:	Regarding the disk space needed, a technique would be to store only 64 cells, but 128 proofs.

Proofs are cheap to store but expensive to reconstruct.
Cells are expensive to store and cheap to reconstruct.
00:22:29	Dustin:	Replying to "One note is that it..."

literally it's two dimensions
00:22:33	Dustin:	Replying to "One note is that it..."

rows. and columns. two dimensions
00:22:35	Dustin:	Replying to "One note is that it..."

2D
00:22:47	Dustin:	Replying to "One note is that it..."

it is not 1D, no
00:22:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	wait the EL never sees the blobs, right?
00:23:03	stokes:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

They are in the mempool
00:23:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

right, there is a chance you see it in the mempool
00:23:08	Dustin:	Replying to "2D peerdas was rep..."

look at those goalpost moving
00:23:19	stokes:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

At least for now, almost no private blobs
00:23:26	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	El mempool needs to be sharded eventually though, no?
00:23:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

The entire get blobs optimisation relies on this anyway
00:23:31	Manu:	Reacted to "The entire get blobs..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:34	terence:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

and batch poster should def have the blob tx, they can store it for later
00:23:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

thatâ€™s an optimistic case optimization though
00:23:47	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "El mempool needs to ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:23:51	Dustin:	Replying to "wait the EL never ..."

yes, it's why it's dicey and ther eshould have been more testing without it (some happened, yes)
00:23:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

obv blob users canâ€™t rely on optimistic case mechanisms
00:23:58	potuz:	Reacted to "and batch poster sho..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:59	terence:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

they just need to know if it is included or not
00:24:11	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Also, most L2 use builder apis to publish blobs. So you wont see the blobs in mempool in this case
00:24:25	FLCL:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

if so it can be extracted from el block
00:24:30	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	interesting
00:25:18	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Also, most L2 use bu..." 

 Iirc most l2s don't do that at the moment (might change in the future)
00:25:32	potuz:	Reacted to "Iirc most l2s don't ..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:33	Francesco:	Reacted to "Iirc most l2s don't ..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:33	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4657
00:25:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:42	Francesco:	Replying to "Also, most L2 use bu..."

Almost no l2s do this
00:25:49	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "El mempool needs t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:25:50	Trent:	The post from Marius https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/10/15/fusaka-blob-update
00:25:52	Koen (Aztec):	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:56	Manu:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:02	Peter (Scroll):	Replying to "Also, most L2 use bu..."

We used to only rely on the public mempool. But our blobs took long to get included so now we post to multiple APIs.
00:26:12	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to We used to only rely... with "ğŸ‘"
00:26:29	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Also, most L2 use bu..." 

 
(Which is the correct behavior I think)
00:26:31	FLCL:	Replying to "wait the EL never se..."

blobs can be used to recontruct l2 state, so I guess they would be still needed
00:27:01	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:15	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@bbusa/fusaka-bpo-timeline
00:27:35	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ”¥
00:27:37	Barnabas:	ship it
00:27:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ”¥
00:27:45	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "ship it" with ğŸš¢
00:27:49	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ”¥
00:27:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ship it" with ğŸš¢
00:28:00	Trent:	Reacted to "ship it" with ğŸš¢
00:28:05	Sam Jernigan:	ship
00:28:14	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	LFG
00:28:17	Marius van der Wijden:	Nov 3. sounds good to me
00:28:26	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Nov 3. sounds good t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:29:06	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "Nov 3. sounds good t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:29:13	Fredrik:	Mainnet
Mainnet should not have an upgrade date set until all testnets have been upgraded.
The upgrade must have gone through at least two testnets.
Mainnet must not upgrade less than 30 days after the final testnet has been verified to have been successfully upgraded. This is to ensure enough time has been given to test and spot potential issues before going live on mainnet and to allow for downstream projects to plan their upgrades. L2s need time to produce DAO proposals, organize their own upgrades, etc.
00:29:18	Phil Ngo:	Although this is probably implying that we donâ€™t have anything from the Hoodi fork that would be of concern, Nov 3 release is doable.
00:29:26	Fredrik:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/master/processes/protocol-upgrade.md#mainnet
00:29:28	Phil Ngo:	Hoodi is on 28th October
00:29:38	Francesco:	Replying to "2D peerdas was repea..."

...
00:29:40	Barnabas:	should not is not must not :D
00:29:47	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "should not is not mu..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:29:52	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "should not is not mu..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:55	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "should not is not mu..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:57	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "should not is not mu..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:30:03	Fredrik:	Indeed, but we should at least take it into consideration
00:30:18	Sam Jernigan:	Reacted to "should not is not mu..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:22	kingy_sigp:	we've already put dec 3 ascii art in lighthouse, we're gtg
00:30:24	felix (eest):	Reacted to "ship it" with ğŸš¢
00:30:30	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:30:31	Trent:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ˜
00:30:33	manas:	Reacted to "we've already put ..." with ğŸ‰
00:30:34	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ’¯
00:30:38	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "should not is not mu..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:39	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:30:48	wolovim:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:30:49	Matt B:	Reacted to "we've already put ..." with ğŸ‰
00:30:49	Justin Traglia:	I support this ğŸ‘
00:30:56	Åukasz Rozmej:	No issue for Nerhermind
00:31:02	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Indeed, but we shoul..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:09	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:31:13	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:31:25	potuz:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ˜
00:31:28	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:31:34	Nando | Diva:	Reacted to "should not is not ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:31:36	Shane Moore:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:32:07	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "we've already put de..." with ğŸ‰
00:32:31	potuz:	release named "dia de los muertos", a little prophetic for the fork :)
00:32:35	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "2D peerdas was repeaâ€¦"
AFAIU, this isnâ€™t really about 2D PeerDAS, but about resolving for some user access patterns
00:32:52	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "release named "dia..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:00	Nando | Diva:	Reacted to "release named "dia..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:00	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "release named "dia d..." with ğŸ˜…
00:33:19	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "release named "dia..." with ğŸ’€
00:34:03	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "2D peerdas was repeaâ€¦"
What these nodes are interested in is in accessing their own blobs, which custodying specific row indices wouldnâ€™t give them anyway
00:34:14	Marius van der Wijden:	Have we prototyped trustless payments? Have we tested trustless payments? How would the userflow work?
00:34:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "release named "dia d..." with ğŸ’€
00:34:45	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Have we prototyped t..."

Trustless is the current spec, so yes.
00:35:57	Dustin:	why do people keep trying to split the trustless payments part off? it was one of the things justifying its complexity, and it keeps coming up
00:36:31	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "why do people keep t..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:41	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

imo this is a contentious feature, despite broad core dev agreement to the contrary
00:37:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think I agree. letâ€™s treat them as separate for governance, but keep them together in EIP / spec, unless / until we were to decide to not have staked builders in Glamsterdam.
00:37:31	Christoph Schlegel:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

But what is so contentious about them? Itâ€™s a feature feel free to not use it
00:37:35	Dustin:	Replying to "why do people keep..."

Ok, from my perspective that's just straight-up bait and switch if it's dropped now. The vast majority of ePBS complexity is in place anyway, and this drops an actual benefit from having two signers
00:38:20	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

@Christoph Schlegel features take time to ship and have consequences on future designs. that said yes we are imo too far down in the implementation tree to reverse course at this point
00:38:24	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

not sure i understand how that is practicable?
00:38:27	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to why do people keep t... with "ğŸ‘"
00:38:43	Dustin:	Replying to "why do people keep..."

the builder API has been broken and created weird trust relationship ("unbundling attacks") etc for years, and this is finally an alternative
00:38:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

well as in, we make the final decision soon (say pre devconnect)
00:39:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

then it would still be possible to split
00:39:20	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "the builder API has ..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:28	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

@Dustin your arguments, not mine
00:39:58	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "the builder API has ..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:04	Christoph Schlegel:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

@BarnabÃ© Monnot but on the future consequences part I havenâ€™t heard any convincing argument. The only argument I could envision is that we could design them in a better way. Or was there anything else?
00:40:17	terence:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

for CL client, its hard to make any substantive progress on glamsterdam until we can come down to a firm decision
00:40:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "for CL client, its h..." with â•
00:40:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

well I think you should move forward for now assuming they stay together
00:40:52	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

@Christoph Schlegel better write-up here https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/874767108809031740/1428346638606532689
00:40:54	Francesco:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

For example supporting them has an effect on the consensus protocol design. When we want to change this in the future to improve the current very sub-optimal protocol, thereâ€™s likely going to be a price to pay
00:41:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

it is already understood that a split would be somewhat disruptive
00:41:29	terence:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

split would mean a new EIP, new consens spec, new everything imo
00:41:38	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "split would mean a n..." with â•
00:42:00	Christoph Schlegel:	Reacted to "the builder API has ..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why do people keep t..."

why do people keep trying to split the trustless payments part off

I can only speak for myself: I really want FOCIL in Glamterdam, but staked builders + FOCIL is just too big of a scope to me. So Iâ€™d rather do FOCIL instead of staked builders.
00:43:38	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i'm having a hard time imagining scheduling just staked building in a future hardfork.
00:43:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think I agree. let..."

not sure â€œnew specâ€ is an accurate way of describing it, we constantly make changes to EIPs as we get closer to a hard fork
00:44:03	ethDreamer (Mark):	I didnâ€™t say it was impossible or super difficult. I just said that at this point in the process it will almost certainly take more time.
00:44:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

that should be a sign then that it is not a super impactful feature.

Thatâ€™s exactly why I prefer to ship FOCIL in the first place.
00:44:53	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

If the point is that it could have only been shipped as an omnibus feature, I think itâ€™s not a very convincing argument for shipping trustless payments
00:44:56	potuz:	free option problem has nothing to do with trustless payments
00:44:57	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "that should be a sig..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:06	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "free option problem ..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:08	terence:	wait, trustless payment has nothing to do with free option problem
00:45:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I didnâ€™t say it was ..."

more time than having not had it in ePBS in the first place? or more time than keeping it in? I really think the reworking of all of the testing efforts to accommodate the new dual building pipeline will be a huge headache
00:45:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "free option problem ..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "free option problem ..."

agree.
00:45:41	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "that should be a s..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:48	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

i take it more as a signal that it is controversial, and has opposition. not that it isn't low impact. I think it's very high impact and pretty fundamental to ePBS
00:45:48	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to free option problem ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:45:49	Christoph Schlegel:	Replying to "free option problem ..."

Well if you donâ€™t have a trustless payment, you would need to have a relay helping you with the free option
00:45:49	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "If the point is th..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:50	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "free option problem ..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:09	Christoph Schlegel:	Replying to "free option problem ..."

But generally agree that it would still be there with or without
00:46:23	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "I didnâ€™t say it was ..."

More time to come up with an alternative spec at this point in the process and hash out the debate and rework the code
00:46:24	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "If the point is that..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:40	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "free option problem ..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "If the point is that..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:54	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "free option proble..."

Can't you mitigate it by commiting in the slot after the reveal? How would that work with trustless payments?
00:47:07	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "free option problem ..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:14	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "free option proble..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:18	Shane Moore:	Reacted to "free option problem ..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:18	Justin Traglia:	I support leaving it as it is.
00:47:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

does it have opposition? my opposition is purely about opportunity cost. if we ever have a hard fork where we donâ€™t have anything more important, we should ship it!
00:47:31	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	The question is does it add a meaningful benefit to outweigh the complexity
00:47:37	Barnabas:	Can we just make a decision and stick to it?
00:47:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Can we just make a d..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:43	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Can we just make a d..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:43	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "Can we just make a d..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:47	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "Can we just make a d..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:47	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Can we just make a..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:48	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Can we just make a..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:50	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Can we just make a d..."

Yes please.
00:47:50	potuz:	Reacted to "Can we just make a d..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:51	Barnabas:	Lets not drag it on for 2 more weeks
00:47:55	potuz:	Replying to "Can we just make a d..."

yes please
00:47:56	Francesco:	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

I have some level of opposition to it because itâ€™s very much not clear that itâ€™s a â€œfreeâ€ feature (or rather that the cost is only the work it takes to ship it)
00:48:09	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Can we just make a d..."

I think making the decision before making a decision on FOCIL means effectively killing FOCIL.
00:48:11	Justin Traglia:	So we have decided to leave it as it is?
00:48:12	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "Can we just make a d..."

Agree, that the decision is needed
00:48:15	Christoph Schlegel:	Reacted to "Can we just make a d..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:21	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "I think making the d..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:28	Francesco:	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

There are costs, we just donâ€™t 100% know what they are and we will only find out later
00:48:34	Fredrik:	As is it is
00:48:37	Barnabas:	Reacted to "As it is" with ğŸ‘
00:48:39	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "As it is" with ğŸ‘
00:48:43	Francesco:	Replying to "i'm having a hard ti..."

Otherwise itâ€™s obviously a good feature, we just donâ€™t know what we are trading it off against
00:49:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	wait the decision was explicitly not to give it â€œheadliner proteciton statusâ€ though, right?
00:49:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "wait the decision wa..."

I understand that that is what people want to do anyway, so in practice I donâ€™t see it being removed. just asking as a matter of process
00:50:26	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	I think more the second
00:51:09	Marius van der Wijden:	Yeah, pulling it out in 6 weeks for focil is bad imo
00:51:45	Dustin:	FOCIL being deliberately put after ePBS was always making it contingent, that was the deal
00:51:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	EL devs putting on their CL hats...
00:52:00	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "EL devs putting on t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:03	potuz:	Reacted to "EL devs putting on t..." with ğŸ˜
00:52:04	Barnabas:	Reacted to "EL devs putting on t..." with ğŸ˜
00:52:18	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to EL devs putting on t... with "ğŸ˜"
00:52:24	soispoke:	I donâ€™t think we should necessarily make the decision about FOCIL right now tbh, to me it also depends on other EIPs?
00:52:28	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "EL devs putting on t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "FOCIL being delibera..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	staked builders are also not a scaling feature
00:52:45	potuz:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:50	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "staked builders are ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "staked builders are ..."

thatâ€™s the point
00:52:53	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "staked builders ar..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:54	soispoke:	Reacted to "staked builders are ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "EL devs putting on t..." with ğŸ˜
00:53:13	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "staked builders are ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	cries in CROPS
00:53:17	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "staked builders are ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "staked builders are ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "staked builders are ..."

we decide to prioritize staked builders over FOCIL as the main non-scaling part of the CL-side Glamsterdam scope
00:53:30	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "The question is do..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "staked builders are ..."

I think that is a really really bad decision
00:53:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "cries in CROPS"

I mean same. I really think this might effectively be the death of censorship resistance on Ethereum, full stop
00:53:59	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "staked builders are ..."

I have a feeling that staked builders will not see a major use. Cause there is not real reason for builders to switch from off-chain
00:54:17	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "cries in CROPS" 

 Thats a bit hard, I don't think so
00:54:21	soispoke:	Replying to "cries in CROPS"

agreed, are people 100% confident we wouldnâ€™t be able to ship both?
00:54:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "cries in CROPS"

at least 20% chance that by H-Star FOCIL is too controversial to be shipped
00:54:25	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "cries in CROPS"

can't the devs do something?
00:54:28	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "I have a feeling t..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:33	soispoke:	Reacted to "at least 20% chance ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to I have a feeling tha... with "ğŸ‘"
00:54:43	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "at least 20% chance ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:49	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "at least 20% chance ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:50	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "cries in CROPS"

Iâ€™m 80% confident we shouldnâ€™t ship both
00:54:51	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "can't the devs do so..." with ğŸ˜…
00:54:54	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "staked builders are ..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "cries in CROPS"

@soispoke I mean I think that is where most ppl here disagree with me. to me, yes, shipping both would be super irresponsible. but I think there is a chance we do that anyway
00:55:05	Jihoon:	Reacted to "at least 20% chance ..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:09	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "staked builders ar..."

Agree FOCIL is much more useful than trustless payments, but it's not clear to me that's the tradeoff
00:55:22	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	On 7688. It will be great to finally have it
00:55:22	Barnabas:	We have time, so why not discuss FOCIL in or out?
00:55:30	terence:	isnt that too early?
00:55:30	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:34	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "isnt that too early?" with ğŸ‘
00:55:37	Kalo | Obol:	Reacted to "isnt that too early?" with ğŸ‘
00:55:37	soispoke:	Reacted to "isnt that too early?" with ğŸ‘
00:55:41	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "isnt that too early?" with ğŸ‘
00:55:41	James He:	Reacted to "isnt that too early?" with ğŸ‘
00:55:45	Jihoon:	Reacted to "isnt that too early?" with ğŸ‘
00:55:46	Josh Davis:	30
00:55:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	tbf FOCIL is CFI
00:55:54	Etan (Nimbus):	quite a few EIPs actually depend on 7688 too, e.g., terenceâ€™s 8015 would be enabled
00:55:54	wolovim:	Glamsterdam point of contacts/champions are listed on forkcast now: https://forkcast.org/upgrade/glamsterdam â€” some assumptions made, reach out if anything is not as expected.
00:56:00	Etan (Nimbus):	thatâ€™s why I brought it up early, as itâ€™s foundational
00:56:04	nixo:	yea i do think thereâ€™s good reason to treat focil differently from the PFIs
00:56:09	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "isnt that too early?"

If we struggle to agree on the major EIPs before fusaka is shipped, then we canâ€™t start pipelining anything
00:56:15	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Sorry, what is the resolution on 7688?
00:56:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	majority of PFIâ€™d EIPs are EL-side
00:56:30	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	But why?
00:56:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "majority of PFIâ€™d EI..."

so CL side should be a bit more manageable
00:56:43	Barnabas:	Reacted to "If we struggle to ag..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:49	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "But why?" 

 Process reasons
00:56:49	Barnabas:	Replying to "isnt that too early?"

we need to accelerate somewhere
00:57:06	kev:	On PeerDAS, is max-blobs needed for Fusaka?
00:57:15	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "But why?" 

 We should focus on getting fusaka out the door before we start the tedious process of filtering new eips
00:57:17	kev:	Replying to "On PeerDAS, is max-b..."

yep
00:57:19	soispoke:	People are not necessarily prepared to talk about FOCIL (it wasnâ€™t on the agenda or anything) but I do think it should be somewhat treated differently than PFId EIPs
00:57:22	Barnabas:	Replying to "On PeerDAS, is max-b..."

thats more of an EL question
00:57:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "People are not neces..." with â•
00:57:33	kev:	Reacted to "thats more of an EL ..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:38	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "People are not nec..." with â•
00:57:40	Jihoon:	Reacted to "People are not neces..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "thats more of an EL ..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:43	Dmitry Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "But why?"

Fair. Letâ€™s not just drop it for the third time lol
00:57:44	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "isnt that too early?"

What new information would be known later? Seems we already know that it would add some constant amount of delay to the fork
00:57:45	soispoke:	Replying to "People are not neces..."

And have a FOCIL specific discussion soonish
00:57:46	nixo:	Reacted to "People are not neces..." with â•
