00:00:38	Minhyuk Kim:	gm!
00:01:37	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	hey all!
00:01:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	gm
00:02:13	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:02:33	Louis:	gn
00:02:36	Mehdi Aouadi:	gm gn
00:02:44	Antoine James:	gmm
00:03:24	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "gm gn" with ğŸ˜„
00:07:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/892088344438255616/1404441330062463086
00:08:57	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/892088344438255616/1402650822285856788
00:09:46	Justin Traglia:	Max is 72, no?
00:10:25	Parithosh Jayanthi:	[https://grafana.observability.ethpandaops.io/d/sunnyside_network_monitor/network-monitor?orgId=1&from=now-3h&to=now&timezone=utc&var-network=fusaka-devnet-4&var-consensus=$__all&var-execution=$__all&var-group_by=instance](https://grafana.observability.ethpandaops.io/d/sunnyside_network_monitor/network-monitor?orgId=1&from=now-3h&to=now&timezone=utc&var-network=fusaka-devnet-4&var-consensus=$__all&var-execution=$__all&var-group_by=instance)
00:10:43	samcm:	Replying to "Max is 72, no?"

Yeah max 72 at the final BPO
00:10:48	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Yeah max 72 at the f..." with â¤ï¸
00:12:44	James He:	From Preston 
>Releasing to holesky off develop isn't difficult, but it messes with normal flow for releases
00:14:04	pawan:	How long would the non-finality last?
00:15:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/678
00:16:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://syncoor.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io/
00:21:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I do think getting to a combined ePBS + BALs (+ repricing) devnet would be very valuable
00:21:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I do think getting t..."

basically the â€œscalingâ€ devnet
00:21:49	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	BALs is already speced on top of fusaka
00:22:46	Justin Traglia:	FYI Iâ€™m planning to merge this PR soon: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4476
00:23:00	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I do think getting t..."

sorry what is it that we are repricing?
00:23:20	Louis:	Replying to "I do think getting t..."

Is it gas repricing?
00:23:33	Justin Traglia:	Sounds good ğŸ‘
00:23:57	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I do think getting t..."

Is there an EIP?
00:24:45	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I do think getting t..." 

 Things like 7904, 7778, multi dim metering,
00:25:06	Alexey:	you mean we need meta eip?
00:25:33	Marius van der Wijden:	Can you quickly talk about the consensus issues found with fusaka @Mario Vega
00:26:58	Tim Beiko:	For repricings
00:27:02	Tim Beiko:	Like we had for EOF
00:27:13	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	I had this one too:
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7981
00:29:04	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Can you quickly talk..."

For EIP-7823?
00:30:05	Louis:	Replying to "Can you quickly talk..."

Base & Modulus len is zero but exponent exceeds the upper bound
00:30:05	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/pull/1993
00:30:08	Justin Traglia:	Yeah this one ^
00:30:10	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Base & Modulus len i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:30:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	@pk910 do you want to talk about 16M on eth_call?
00:31:21	spencer:	Replying to "Can you quickly talkâ€¦"
Test is merged!
00:31:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Test is merged!" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:31:59	pk910:	uh, yea,  can quickly ask,  but I still don't know which client implemented it :D
so noone to blame yet
00:33:19	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Can you quickly talk..."

https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/pull/2005
00:33:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	seems better to keep eth_call unbounded, no?
00:34:03	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "seems better to keep..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:12	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "seems better to keep..." with ğŸ’¯
00:34:17	Ansgar Dietrichs:	sounds like just a bug then
00:34:26	Marius van der Wijden:	We have a configurable limit in geth iirc
00:34:35	lightclient:	Reacted to "We have a configurab..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:40	Ben Adams:	Well not unbounded, but high ğŸ™‚
00:35:54	Marius van der Wijden:	Defaulted to 50M in geth
00:36:04	pk910:	geth when used as lib sends a 50M gas limit by default.   we should keep this to maintain compatibility with existing tools :)
00:36:22	pk910:	Reacted to "Defaulted to 50M in ..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:40	Ansgar Dietrichs:	someone should just check with them whether that was really meant as a design decision
00:37:46	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to someone should just ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:37:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "someone should just ..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:51	pk910:	Reacted to "someone should just ..." with ğŸ‘
