00:03:48	terence:	gm
00:03:56	Justin Traglia:	gm
00:04:03	nixo:	gm ğŸ¦ƒ
00:04:05	Ben Edgington:	gm
00:04:09	Satyajit:	gm
00:04:16	stokes:	gm
00:04:17	Potuz:	GM
00:04:22	Mehdi Aouadi:	gm
00:04:39	terence:	what is a holiday
00:04:43	stokes:	Replying to "what is a holiday"

right
00:04:47	Potuz:	Alex sounds like he doesn't want to wake up a baby
00:04:48	nixo:	Reacted to "what is a holiday" with ğŸ˜„
00:04:51	Katya:	Reacted to "what is a holiday" with ğŸ˜„
00:04:51	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "what is a holiday" with ğŸ˜„
00:04:58	Josh Davis:	ASMR ACD
00:05:02	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "ASMR ACD" with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:03	Chris:	Reacted to "Alex sounds like h..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:07	nixo:	Reacted to "Alex sounds like he ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:08	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Alex sounds like he ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:09	Katya:	Reacted to "Alex sounds like he ..." with ğŸ˜
00:05:09	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Alex sounds like he ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:11	Satyajit:	Reacted to "what is a holiday" with ğŸ˜„
00:05:16	nixo:	Reacted to "ASMR ACD" with ğŸ§
00:05:16	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "ASMR ACD" with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:22	0x:	Reacted to "ASMR ACD" with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:29	felix (eest):	Reacted to "ASMR ACD" with ğŸ˜‚
00:05:31	Katya:	Replying to "Alex sounds like he ..."

Smooth and relaxed
00:05:32	felix (eest):	Reacted to "ASMR ACD" with ğŸ§
00:06:13	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1812
00:07:08	Barnabas:	https://dora.fusaka-msf-1.ethpandaops.io
00:07:45	Bharath:	Replying to "https://dora.fusaka-..."

Are we using mev-boost on msf-1?
00:08:08	Chris:	Is there any update on the bug for supernodes on mainnet nimbus client (25.11.0)?
00:08:13	Bharath:	Replying to "https://dora.fusaka-..."

No worries. Would be nice to do it if possible
00:08:13	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/master/Fusaka/fusaka-mainnet-plan.md
00:08:29	Bharath:	Replying to "https://dora.fusaka-..."

For upcoming shadow forks
00:09:00	Fireflies.ai Notetaker Gustavo:	Gustavo invited Fireflies.ai here to record & take notes. View Security & Privacy info: https://fireflies.ai/policy

Type:
'/ff leave' - Remove Fireflies

View Realtime notes here: https://app.fireflies.ai/live/01KAXWG3E06XF13KNSB78ETCAH?ref=live_chat
00:10:29	Barnabas:	ah might have misspoke regarding the versions sorry.
00:10:35	Barnabas:	we are running 25.11.0 on msf-1
00:10:38	Potuz:	Reacted to "No worries. Would be..." with ğŸ‘
00:12:08	Barnabas:	Nethermind is planning to have a live stream
00:12:12	Barnabas:	not sure if there is any other ones
00:12:15	nixo:	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upns65rH7mQ
00:12:19	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Nethermind is planni..." with ğŸ”¥
00:12:26	nixo:	Reacted to "Nethermind is planni..." with ğŸ”¥
00:12:30	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "Nethermind is planni..." with ğŸ”¥
00:12:36	alex:	some will be flying actually ğŸ™ˆ . but i trust everyone else will make sure things go smooth ğŸ˜
00:12:48	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "https://www.youtube...." with â•
00:12:50	Yann Vonlanthen:	Reacted to "https://www.youtube...." with â•
00:13:41	alex:	@stokes now a good time to mention the discussion?
00:13:43	Potuz:	Is terence here?
00:13:52	stokes:	Replying to "@stokes now a good t..."

next
00:13:56	alex:	Reacted to "next" with ğŸ‘
00:14:04	Barnabas:	Replying to "Is terence here?"

delegating tasks already ğŸ˜‚
00:14:23	Potuz:	PRs are already open for PRysm
00:14:26	Potuz:	need to review them
00:14:29	Stefan Starflinger:	Sorry wrong ACD
00:14:39	stokes:	Replying to "Sorry wrong ACD"

It was helpful!
00:14:40	Justin Traglia:	We cancelled the last epbs breakout call due to devconnect. So no updates from me.
00:14:41	Potuz:	Stephan is not here?
00:14:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Sorry wrong ACD" with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "Sorry wrong ACD"

at least the EL guys are progressing ğŸ˜‚
00:15:21	Phil Ngo:	Weâ€™re gonna be joining devnets in likely January, still a work in progress with Lodestar
00:15:33	kingy_sigp:	sorry joined slightly late -- lighthouse making steady progress
00:15:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Sorry wrong ACD"
EL best L according to many
00:15:42	kingy_sigp:	we're looking good for late dec early jan
00:16:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Sorry wrong ACD"
Sorry until Tim takes back over I will be tribal
00:16:43	Bharath:	Reacted to "Sorry wrong ACD" with ğŸ˜‚
00:18:23	alex:	https://t.me/smilingalex
00:20:34	alex:	ill add, the contentious views are on all kinds of points, but good to point out. they range from â€œwhy is this improvement worth addingâ€ to â€œthis change may centralize the out of protocol builder market more, we donâ€™t want thatâ€
00:21:07	alex:	i also wrote a ethresearch opinion post to help give some context on the people which told me about the latter concern: https://ethresear.ch/t/trustless-payments-right-vibe-more-trust/23531
00:21:41	alex:	if you have strong feelings on this either way, please come join the discussion.
00:21:46	Barnabas:	FOCIL to SFI to Heka
00:21:48	kingy_sigp:	sfi focil for heka
00:21:50	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	SFI
00:21:57	Pari:	Reacted to "SFI" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:21:59	Phil Ngo:	SFI is much more of a commitment
00:22:26	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Itâ€™s literally CFIâ€™ed for Glamsterdam and weâ€™re about to push it into H*. This is precisely what weâ€™re trying to prevent to happen again. (CFI is not a credible commitment)
00:22:30	lightclient:	We havenâ€™t scoped heka yet, so not really reasonable to commit to it already
00:22:33	nixo:	will there still be a headliner process
00:22:36	nixo:	yea that
00:23:03	Barnabas:	I think FOCIL should be highest prio, and then scope the rest of the fork based on the assumption that FOCIL is SFI-ed already.
00:23:09	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Too early for SFI'ing anything for heka.
00:23:09	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:11	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:13	0x:	Reacted to "Too early for SFI'..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:16	Lean F | Ethrex:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:17	Marc:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL shouldâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:23:19	Dustin:	this also creates the rug-pull risk that focil people were so concerned about
00:23:22	nflaig:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:25	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:32	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ’¯
00:23:34	lightclient:	FOCIL failed make it into glamsterdam. Just follow the process for heka
00:23:41	0x:	Reacted to "FOCIL failed make ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:44	terence:	Reacted to "FOCIL failed make it..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:45	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Too early for SFI'inâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:23:52	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:52	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "FOCIL failed make it..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:53	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:54	Fredrik:	Reacted to "FOCIL failed make itâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:23:55	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ’¯
00:23:59	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to FOCIL failed make it... with "ğŸ‘"
00:24:05	Jihoon:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL shouldâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:24:05	Satyajit:	Reacted to "Too early for SFI'..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:07	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "Too early for SFI'in..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:09	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ’¯
00:24:18	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "FOCIL failed make it..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:32	Åukasz Rozmej:	I'm still for FOCIL in Glamsterdam, but it is up to you guys
00:24:40	0x:	Reacted to "I'm still for FOCI..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:44	Pari:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:04	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I donâ€™t personally think SFI is appropriate, purely for process reasons. I think we can formally CFI it for Heka now, with the understanding that we all have conviction already it will be included.
00:25:42	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I donâ€™t personally t... with "ğŸ‘"
00:25:49	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL shouldâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:25:51	IvÃ¡n | Lambda:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ’¯
00:25:52	IvÃ¡n | Lambda:	Reacted to "I think FOCIL should..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:52	Fredrik:	what if something else comes up between now and heka that we need to prioritize? Feels like there are many unknowns
00:25:56	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "I donâ€™t personally t..."

Then the discussion goes back to whether it goes into Glamsterdam or not
00:25:56	Barnabas:	I think we need to start rethinking our process, as the current process is way to restrictive, which actually slows down potential decision making. Ideally pushing 2 forks a year, we need a process that allows for more pipelining.
00:25:59	Pari:	We also bypassed process in the past tbh. e.g: 4844, withdrawals and PeerDAS were all pushed as confirmed (or some variation of SFI) before the previous fork was even shipped.
00:26:07	0x:	Replying to "I'm still for FOCI..."

It looks like most of the CL teams are willing to delay the fork if necessary. At least thatâ€™s what they wrote in their Hackmd or in their stated preferences
00:26:12	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "I think we need to s..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:16	Pari:	Reacted to "I think we need to s..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:25	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "I think we need to s..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:27	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "I think we need to s..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:28	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	the discussion moved on from FOCIL in Glam to exploring options to credibly commit in Heka.
00:26:42	lightclient:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

If itâ€™s unanimous, we can override. But FOCIL is definitely not a unanimously accepted idea
00:26:52	0x:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t personall..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:57	Jihoon:	Reacted to "the discussion movedâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:27:04	nflaig:	Reacted to "I think we need to s..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:07	nixo:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

is it not?
00:27:10	Potuz:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

is it not?
00:27:15	lightclient:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

Definitely not
00:27:17	nixo:	Reacted to "is it not?" with ğŸ˜
00:27:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Tend to agree with Barnabas, but would discuss that async
00:27:20	Pari:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

Yeah from anything Iâ€™ve read, Iâ€™ve only seen a when FOCIL and not IF FOCIl
00:27:25	Dustin:	was there opposition?
00:27:28	Dustin:	to FOCIL
00:27:29	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "I think we need to sâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:27:30	Pari:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

Almost all client teams have mentioned including FOCIL
00:27:31	Potuz:	Reacted to "Yeah from anything I..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:37	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "I donâ€™t personally t..."

anything but SFI is clearly not a credible commitment and so we need to go back to discussing FOCIL for Glam or not
00:27:44	nixo:	Reacted to "Yeah from anything I..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:57	0x:	Reacted to "Almost all client ..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:02	nixo:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t personally t..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:02	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Almost all client te..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:04	lightclient:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

https://censorship.pics/
00:28:06	Barnabas:	Can we at least agree to DFI FOCIL from glammy?
00:28:08	lightclient:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

Censorship is over
00:28:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "was there oppositionâ€¦"
To which part? Glamsterdam? SFI Heka? CFI Heka?
00:28:32	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I donâ€™t personally t..." 

 But why do we need a "credible committment"?
00:28:37	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "Can we at least agre..."

thatâ€™s dependent on whether we find a credible commitment for Heka though
00:28:50	Satyajit:	Reacted to "Yeah from anything..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:56	Dustin:	Replying to "was there oppositi..."

heka
00:28:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I donâ€™t personally t..." 

 If it's still important in 6 month, we just ship it. No early committments needed.
00:29:06	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

^iiuc this only measures tornado cash. Builders/relays still â€œcensorâ€, there just rarely is anything not OFAC compliant
00:29:15	0x:	Reacted to "If it's still impo..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:17	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Is because OFAC is shrinking?
00:29:34	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Yeah from anything I..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:41	lightclient:	Reacted to "If it's still import..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:54	Barnabas:	previous forks were scheduled 12mo ahead, so scheduling something 12mo out â€œunrealisticâ€ sounds weird.
00:30:44	Pari:	Reacted to "previous forks were ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:31:10	lightclient:	Guys the process changed march of this year
00:31:23	Barnabas:	Replying to "Guys the process cha..."

thats like ages ago
00:31:29	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "previous forks were ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:31:40	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Yeah from anything I..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:42	lightclient:	Replying to "Guys the process cha..."

Iâ€™ve lived 3 full length lives since then
00:31:46	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Almost all client te..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:05	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I think we need to s..."

we need 3 forks a year! :)
00:32:08	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I think we need to s..."

Not even a joke
00:32:12	nixo:	Reacted to "we need 3 forks a ye..." with ğŸ˜¬
00:32:20	lightclient:	Reacted to "we need 3 forks a ye..." with ğŸ¤ 
00:32:21	Jihoon:	Reacted to "I think we need to sâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:32:32	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "I think we need to s..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:34	Pari:	Replying to "I think we need to s..."

Lets first get good at doing 2 ğŸ™‚ feels like thatâ€™s been a big enough lift with tons of resistance
00:32:52	Marc:	Reacted to "I think we need to sâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:33:01	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I think we need to s..."

release often - allows to make releases smaller
00:33:07	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Too early for SFI'in..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:23	Pari:	SFI-ed EIPs can still be removed, it just implies the burden of proof needs to be much higher than for a CFI-ed EIP right?
00:33:29	lightclient:	Part of the point of the process is to put rails up to guide discussion so we donâ€™t spend hours of group discussion time creating new process tools
00:33:32	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "SFI-ed EIPs can stil..." with ğŸ’¯
00:33:33	soispoke:	Replying to "SFI-ed EIPs can stil..."

yes
00:33:34	soispoke:	Reacted to "SFI-ed EIPs can stil..." with ğŸ’¯
00:33:43	Dustin:	Replying to "SFI-ed EIPs can st..."

more EOF drama
00:33:52	lightclient:	Reacted to "more EOF drama" with ğŸ« 
00:33:56	Pari:	Replying to "I think we need to s..."

Issue is the time we have to wait for ecosystem between testnets/mainnet. Thereâ€™s ~2-3 months between first release to mainnet. We need to shrink that, but then we push an unrealistic cost on the ecosystem.
00:33:57	Barnabas:	Reacted to "more EOF drama" with ğŸ« 
00:35:51	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

@lightclient wouldn't call it over, just on halt
00:36:22	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Yeah from anything I..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:35	lightclient:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

Even at the absolute worst, 10% of blocks were not censoring
00:36:57	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

give it some elections in some powerful parts of the world and it can change drasticly
00:37:02	lightclient:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

Ethereum is always censorship resistant
00:37:14	nixo:	but we should acknowledge that we need a harder commitment than CFI - can we commit to having an outlined headliner process that prioritizes FOCIL before next call?
00:37:26	lightclient:	Can we make a decision on glamsterdam
00:37:39	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Can we make a decisi..." with ğŸ™
00:37:43	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Can we make a decisi... with "ğŸ™"
00:37:46	0x:	Reacted to "Can we make a deci..." with ğŸ™
00:37:52	Barnabas:	+1 matt, lets just DFI for glamsterdam, and we can bikeshed whether its CFI or SFI for heka
00:37:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "but we should acknowâ€¦"
Why do we need a harder commitment?
00:38:07	Dustin:	one cost of not making a more credible commitment (with respects to Ansgar's point) is the next future "FOCIL" will know they might want to fight harder against DFI-in-n-for-n+1
00:38:08	lightclient:	No conditionals ğŸ˜­
00:38:08	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I think we need to s..."

we need leap-frogging hard forks
00:38:13	Barnabas:	we have so many other EIPs to discuss.
00:38:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "but we should acknowâ€¦"
Clearly everyone wants it in Heka
00:38:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "but we should acknowâ€¦"
Thatâ€™s the most credible aspect no matter what
00:38:38	nixo:	Replying to "but we should acknow..."

because it was CFIâ€™d for Glamsterdam and the champions have indicated that their agreement to move it is conditional on a harder commitment
00:38:40	lightclient:	Itâ€™s contentious for a reason
00:38:43	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "+1 matt, lets just D..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:46	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "Thatâ€™s the most cred..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:47	Dustin:	in glamsterdam
00:38:49	Dustin:	not heka
00:39:01	Potuz:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

@matt 
> Censorship is over
This is really a bad take, there are much more impactful and possibly profitable censorship attacks than censoring TC. We will only find out about them when a rollup is rugged
00:39:11	Katya:	We even have metrics for FOCIL ğŸ˜‚
00:39:17	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

whatâ€™s contentious except when to ship it?
00:39:18	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

but it needs to be censorship resistant and relevant
00:39:26	nixo:	Replying to "but we should acknow..."

and not just champions, the majority of client teams and community expressed support for it in Glamsterdam
00:39:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "@matt 
> Censorship ..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:39	Barnabas:	make the decision Stokes ğŸ˜‚
00:39:42	0x:	Reacted to "whatâ€™s contentiou..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:46	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

Whether we should be doing FOCIL
00:39:46	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "make the decision St..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:39:52	Potuz:	Replying to "We also bypassed pro..."

even from a scaling perspective there's more to Focil
00:39:52	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

I donâ€™t think we need it
00:39:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	FOCIL was always contentious for Glamsterdam, we never had â€œeveryone agrees it will be inâ€, independent of process.

For Heka we now have â€œeveryone agrees it will be inâ€. That is what matters.
00:39:57	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

I think thatâ€™s mostly you?
00:39:59	Dustin:	the whole "but the process" thing is a bit farcical given the effort in this call to undermine the agreements with L2s etc timelinewise before
00:40:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I still hate SFI, but whatever. Letâ€™s do it
00:40:06	nixo:	Reacted to "I think thatâ€™s mostl..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:09	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

I donâ€™t think so
00:40:12	nixo:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

who else
00:40:16	soispoke:	Reacted to "I still hate SFI, bu..." with ğŸ«¡
00:40:20	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "I still hate SFI, bu..." with ğŸ«¡
00:40:20	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

They can come forward if they want
00:40:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "I think thatâ€™s mostl..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:31	Dustin:	it's a new process
00:40:36	nixo:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

are these FOCIL opposers in the room with us right now
00:40:38	Potuz:	Reacted to "I think thatâ€™s mostl..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:45	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜…
00:40:47	Potuz:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

lol
00:40:49	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜…
00:40:51	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..." 

 We don't know if there is something more important in the future. If there is, we should ship that instead of any other eip. It doesn't matter at all how long an eip has been around.
00:40:52	Pari:	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:40:53	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

Iâ€™m also not convinced it is the right move (even in heck)
00:41:17	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:17	Barnabas:	Having a decision so early will enable us to start testing FOCIL asap. This will be great for pipelining
00:41:20	nixo:	Reacted to "I still hate SFI, bu..." with ğŸ«¡
00:41:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	So to be explicit, this doesnâ€™t mean we already decided no (other) CL headliners in Heka, right?
00:41:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Having a decision so..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:33	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Having a decision so..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:37	soispoke:	Reacted to "Having a decision so..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:42	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Having a decision so..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:46	Fredrik:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious forâ€¦"
Is there any writeup that describes the reason to not do it?
00:41:46	nixo:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, t..." with â•
00:41:48	Barnabas:	Replying to "So to be explicit, t..."

correct
00:41:51	Trent:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, t..." with â•
00:41:51	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Having a decision so..."

exactly we should be finishing scoping H* and starting I* soon
00:41:55	soispoke:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, t..." with â•
00:41:57	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

https://mevboost.pics/
00:41:58	Trent:	Reacted to "exactly we should be..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:59	Barnabas:	Replying to "Having a decision so..."

agreed.
00:42:00	Barnabas:	Reacted to "exactly we should be..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:04	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, t..." with â•
00:42:04	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, t..." with â•
00:42:05	Manuel | Lambda:	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:42:06	soispoke:	Reacted to "exactly we should be..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:06	Trent:	Reacted to "agreed." with ğŸ‘
00:42:09	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

8.2% of blocks are vanilla
00:42:17	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

The backbone of CR in ethereum
00:42:38	Barnabas:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

epbs fixes this ğŸ˜‚
00:42:41	terence:	the real value is something like 4.7% last time i look at validator regisgration data from ultra sound (only)
00:42:46	terence:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

8.2% is higher because of min bid
00:42:50	nixo:	Replying to "So to be explicit, t..."

so itâ€™ll just be a â€œwhat can go along with FOCILâ€ process?
00:43:07	Pari:	Reacted to "exactly we should be..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:20	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

But if you do min bid, you wouldnâ€™t necessarily be censoring
00:43:33	Jihoon:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, tâ€¦" with â•
00:43:55	lightclient:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

Maybe some of those clients build custom censoring logic into their clients for local blocks, but that doesnâ€™t currently exist AFAIK
00:44:05	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "So to be explicit, t..." with â•
00:44:14	soispoke:	Reacted to "so itâ€™ll just be a â€œ..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:32	terence:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

ya but i think min bid is useless against a more impactful and profitable censorship attacks
00:45:04	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..." 

 If it's just about CR, builders included more sanctioned txs than local builders (relative to total blocks of each category). 
We should stop pretending that CR is binary and that focil is the only solution.
00:45:31	Barnabas:	Reacted to "so itâ€™ll just be a â€œ..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:42	soispoke:	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜…
00:46:37	Potuz:	that's beyond my pedigree
00:46:58	Barnabas:	what was the reason we got rid of the dynamic churn again?
00:47:14	soispoke:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

CR is not binary, and FOCIL significantly improves inclusion guarantees, I think those points have been discussed ad nauseam
00:47:24	Mikhail Kalinin:	in which case/EIP?
00:48:18	0x:	Reacted to "@matt 
> Censorshi..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:22	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..." 

 Not on my timeline
00:48:22	Barnabas:	Replying to "what was the reason ..."

I remember we had the mechanism where the deposit queue was increased based on how many validators we have. 

Ideally we could just have dynamic churn sizes based on validator sizes. So if we have 1M validators we have bigger churn, and if we have less validators, it goes back down.
00:49:08	soispoke:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

We havenâ€™t discussed these points before?
00:49:12	kingy_sigp:	8080 looks good to me, so does potentially 8061, but lighthouse was at devconnect last week so we need a little more time to discuss internally
00:49:34	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "what was the reason ..."

the motivation to limit activation queue in 8061 is to avoid dealing with issuance
00:50:15	Anders Elowsson:	Feels like everyone is in agreement now
00:50:24	Barnabas:	Lets 
CFI 8061
DFI 8071
CFI 8080 
?
00:50:29	Potuz:	This is my position as well
00:50:37	Anders Elowsson:	Wait with 8061 one call
00:50:43	Anders Elowsson:	Or CFI it
00:50:43	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "This is my position ..."

you wanted to DFI 8061,no?
00:50:50	Greg K | Lido:	Just keep the point that spec updates on 8080 could still be proposed?
00:51:03	Potuz:	Replying to "This is my position ..."

yes, my position is to discuss these next call if people aren't ready
00:51:07	Potuz:	Replying to "This is my position ..."

but I prefer 8080 alone
00:51:18	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "This is my position ..."

ah, i see, thought you replied to Barnabas
00:51:30	Potuz:	Replying to "This is my position ..."

no no, timing sucked, was reasserting Alex's point
00:51:37	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "no no, timing sucked..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:43	0x:	Reacted to "Lets 
CFI 8061
DFI..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:00	Barnabas:	Replying to "This is my position ..."

When Potuz agrees with Barnabas, everyone should always get sus
00:52:25	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "Just keep the point ..."

i think there can be a slight change in the spec but nothing substantial
00:52:42	felix (eest):	Reacted to "are these FOCIL op..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:56	0x:	Reacted to "When Potuz agrees ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:56	Pari:	Reacted to "When Potuz agrees wi..." with ğŸ˜…
00:53:00	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "When Potuz agrees wi..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
00:53:16	Jihoon:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious forâ€¦"
I believe I said I think FOCIL is not a silver bullet for CR over our beers last week tho
00:53:24	Greg K | Lido:	Suggest to DFI 8062 from Glamsterdam
00:53:44	0x:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 806..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:51	Dustin:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 806..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:53	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 8062 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:01	0x:	Replying to "Suggest to DFI 806..."

For what i could gather most of the teams agree on this
00:54:13	nflaig:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 8062 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:56	Potuz:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

> But if you do min bid, you wouldnâ€™t necessarily be censoring

There are fairly serious research on the cost of censoring with and without FOCIL... the current picture is kinda irrelevant in the face of an actual censoring attack.
00:55:18	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 8062 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 8062 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:03	soispoke:	Reacted to "> But if you do min ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:24	Potuz:	Reacted to "Suggest to DFI 8062 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:44	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "are these FOCIL oppo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:37	Barnabas:	Sounds like this would be overcomplicating the protocol for little benefit imo.
00:57:49	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..." 

 It's not only about local building. Again, there's an incentive to include tx, the tip, and many builder are happy to include any tx for money. We only get faster(!) inclusion.
00:58:05	Pari:	Reacted to "Sounds like this wou..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:58:14	Dustin:	Reacted to "Sounds like this w..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:58:31	Pari:	Yeah werenâ€™t custom ceilings looked into during the original Pectra work? And we decided against it due to complexity right?
00:58:40	Potuz:	Reacted to "Sounds like this wou..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:58:46	stokes:	Replying to "Yeah werenâ€™t custom ..."

Yes but we could add at some future point
00:58:49	Barnabas:	Replying to "Sounds like this wou..."

PTSD from when we were working on consolidations. We should have just have maxeb without consolidations, and just ship pectra like that 6 mo earlier.
00:58:50	stokes:	Replying to "Yeah werenâ€™t custom ..."

It was more about pectra itself
00:58:58	Potuz:	Replying to "Sounds like this wou..."

For once I agree with you Barnabas
00:58:59	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Yes but we could a..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:07	Barnabas:	Reacted to "For once I agree wit..." with ğŸ”¥
00:59:19	nixo:	Replying to "Sounds like this wou..."

yea, itâ€™s not touching functionality, just convenience. for professional operators, i think predictable rewards can be accomplished by predictably manually withdrawing. for solo stakers, we donâ€™t really need them to consolidate to have a meaningful impact on validator set size, itâ€™s OK if they stay
00:59:38	Pari:	Reacted to "For once I agree wit..." with ğŸ”¥
00:59:52	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..." 

 Faster inclusion might be a great feature but this should be made clearer. People perceive CR as binary and see focil as solving the problem, which it does not. On-chain enshrined privacy does.
01:00:27	Barnabas:	Replying to "Sounds like this wou..."

never used my 0.002 ETH partial withdrawal to pay my bills ğŸ˜„
01:01:05	Potuz:	I don't think there's broad agreement at all on that...
01:01:06	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Myself and a few Lido people are currently drafting custom cleanings EIP
01:01:42	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "Sounds like this wou..."

consolidations were important UX improvement for MaxEB adoption, we could not predict that they would not be that useful eventually
01:01:43	nixo:	Reacted to "Myself and a few Lid..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:45	Barnabas:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

can you not just make a shell script that makes predicable withdrawals based on current queues?
01:02:02	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Once 0x02 UX is good enough, we can consider implementing a fee for 0x01. But not now
01:02:11	Barnabas:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

trigger predictable partial withdrawals based on that?
01:02:19	Dustin:	Replying to "Sounds like this w..."

in which case maybe they weren't that important?
01:02:35	Greg K | Lido:	Also, 8068, which was DFIed, was giving an incentive for 0x02 by making the compounding rate better (with the updated effective balance calculation). So proposal would be that for H* we do:

8068 to have better compbounding for 0x02 validators
New EIP to introduce custom ceilings for 0x02 validators.
01:02:36	nixo:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

yea seems like it should be within a professional operatorâ€™s capability
01:02:37	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

It will still require some transactions
01:02:46	Barnabas:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

so?
01:02:52	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Once 0x02 UX is go..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:55	Barnabas:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

gas is cheap
01:02:59	nixo:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

so the gas fees are the problem?
01:03:06	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

For pros - maybe. For solos and CSM I donâ€™t feel it is an option. Sorry
01:03:08	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "I don't think ther..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:39	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "Also, 8068, which wa..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:41	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Also, 8068, which wa..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:42	nixo:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

CSM maybe, but iâ€™ve not heard a ton of grumbling from solo stakers. they can just stay with 0x01
01:03:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "Myself and a few Lid..."

make it open source, and csm and solos can use the script too ğŸ˜„
01:04:07	Ladislaus:	Hat auf "CSM maybe, but iâ€™ve ..." mit ğŸ¤ reagiert
01:04:17	soispoke:	Replying to "Itâ€™s contentious for..."

I think enshrined onchain privacy should be worked on a lot more too

There are tons of nuances there as well, you could also have builders censor all private transactions if they wanted to
01:04:37	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "Sounds like this wou..."

consolidations were quite important when we were working on the Pectra, there was no signal from anyone that they wonâ€™t be that much useful
01:04:40	Potuz:	At current values, a validator with the top max EB balance would sweep around USD 1200 every couple of weeks right?
01:04:54	Potuz:	so it seems to me that the argument of predictable income only applies to whales
01:05:02	Potuz:	and not small home stakers
01:05:14	nflaig:	Reacted to "> But if you do min ..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:29	terence:	Replying to "At current values, a..."

dont you have one like that?
01:05:43	Barnabas:	realistically we donâ€™t care if a home staker consolidates or not. As they probably have 1 or 2 validators at home. 

Big operators are the real problem.
01:05:51	Potuz:	I have a few, had to divide by the number of vals after checking my bank statement
01:05:59	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "realistically we don..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:24	Yann Vonlanthen:	Reacted to "realistically we don..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:28	Potuz:	yeah but the point is that customizing for less than the max EB seems stupid to me
01:06:40	Barnabas:	Reacted to "yeah but the point i..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:40	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "yeah but the point i..."

Why?
01:06:44	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "yeah but the point i..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:48	Potuz:	Replying to "yeah but the point i..."

Because of the numbers above
01:06:55	Greg K | Lido:	For the finality part, we also need some real numbers on the number of validators targetting and their impact on the finality design. Do we have any draft of the current fst finality solution considered?
01:07:04	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "yeah but the point i..."

The numbers are for the current MAX_EB
01:07:16	Potuz:	Replying to "yeah but the point i..."

yes
01:07:18	nixo:	Reacted to "realistically we don..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:29	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "yeah but the point..." with ğŸ¤”
01:07:32	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "yeah but the point i..."

If I can set sweep threshold to say 128 ETH the numbers are radically different
01:09:12	Potuz:	We do not need to even impose penalties, we can simply deprecate 0x01 and force exits
01:09:30	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "We do not need to ev..."

lol
01:09:35	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ˜…
01:09:38	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "We do not need to ev..."

What a great idea)
01:09:41	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ˜…
01:09:43	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ˜…
01:09:46	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ’¯
01:09:47	Fig:	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ˜…
01:09:47	nixo:	i agree with anders - thereâ€™s very little appetite to experiment and iterate on mainnet with the same features
01:10:00	DA | Flashbots:	It just sounds to me like pools are never going to consolidate without a push.
01:10:00	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "We do not need to ev..."

I fully agree! ğŸ™‚
01:10:13	nixo:	Replying to "It just sounds to me..."

some of them are working on it, they just need time
01:10:29	nixo:	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ˜…
01:10:31	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "We do not need to ev..." with ğŸ˜…
01:10:48	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "It just sounds to me..."

If you really want to farce them, than do what @Potuz proposed and force exit all 0x01
01:10:51	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "We do not need to ev..."

FastFinality is here, get your eth back and decide what to do ğŸ™‚
01:10:58	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "For the finality par..."

we are able to aggregate 32k signatures in one slot at the moment, and we donâ€™t know if we can do more. But given that number, we should aim 32k validator set size for fast finality. This is naive estimation but gives an idea
01:11:01	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "It just sounds to me..."

And loose the majority of solo stakers
01:11:09	Fig:	Reacted to "If you really want t..." with ğŸ˜…
01:11:33	Barnabas:	proposer lookahead fixes this no?
01:11:35	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "It just sounds to me..."

Also Lido is working on transitioning the whole 2048 ETH validators in 2026
01:11:39	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "It just sounds to me..." 

 The biggest lever is money, always has been
01:13:14	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Also Lido is worki..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:31	Dustin:	Potuz: can the EIP be adjusted to basically ensure that the proposer lookahead is enough?
01:13:32	terence:	we are so back
01:14:15	Potuz:	Yes Dustin
01:14:22	Potuz:	I believe it's safe because of the Lookahead
01:14:28	Potuz:	but it needs to be vetted
01:14:32	Dustin:	ok
01:14:38	Barnabas:	we always assumed that proposal lookahead is a given for this eip
01:14:39	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "The biggest lever is..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:02	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "The biggest lever is..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:24	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "we are so back" with ğŸ˜‚
01:16:19	Dustin:	+1
01:16:21	Phil Ngo:	+1
01:16:22	nflaig:	+1
01:16:23	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	+1
01:16:30	terence:	+1
01:16:51	Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine:	+1
01:17:51	Barnabas:	how complex of a change is 7688?
01:18:32	kingy_sigp:	lighthouse were originally against 7688, but that was in the context of including focil. we're more open to inclusion now
01:18:46	Barnabas:	Reacted to "lighthouse were orig..." with ğŸ‘€
01:18:59	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "lighthouse were orig..." with â¤ï¸
01:19:04	Dustin:	Diva, Lido, Obol at least
01:19:05	NC:	Reacted to "lighthouse were orig..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:11	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "Diva, Lido, Obol at ..." with ğŸ’¯
01:19:16	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "lighthouse were orig..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:22	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Diva, Lido, Obol a..." with ğŸ’¯
01:19:49	Dustin:	It's relatively isolated in SSZ
01:20:00	terence:	seucirty and also performance too i think
01:20:07	Dustin:	Nimbus is for, obviously
01:20:07	Potuz:	We do special case SSZ though
01:20:19	terence:	Prysm is for from team stance
01:20:25	Potuz:	@etan how long will it take to rebase on top of ePBS?
01:20:40	Potuz:	the envelope and the blocks will need to change as well right?
01:20:42	Dustin:	@etan probably isn't in this call
01:20:47	Potuz:	:(
01:20:49	Pari:	How large is this feature going to be? Please take into account epbs + bal changes
01:20:49	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "@etan how long will ..."

Thereâ€™s a PR for this: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4630
01:21:03	Dustin:	But can answer, yeah, probably
01:21:06	Dustin:	BAL is 100% separate
01:21:11	Pari:	Reacted to "BAL is 100% separate" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:21:12	Dustin:	EL, this is CL only
01:21:15	Potuz:	Replying to "@etan how long will ..."

ah nice, Etan was waiting for thiis discussion to decide on the light client
01:21:23	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	We are ok with 7688. We have already implemented Stable Containers in a branch. In the assumption that we can reuse some of the effort from that branch
01:21:26	terence:	what about APIs that take ssz as input? like builder api
01:21:39	Phil Ngo:	Itâ€™s low effort for us as itâ€™s mostly a ssz package change
01:21:43	Dustin:	Replying to "what about APIs th..."

optional, they'd have to kind of opt in to it
01:21:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "BAL is 100% separate"

99.8% separate. BAL touches the beacon state
01:22:05	Fig:	Reacted to "BAL is 100% separate" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:22:30	Barnabas:	sounds like most teams are for it, so lets CFI, and take a closer look? We can DFI later if its too big
01:22:31	Justin Traglia:	I would say now is the time. I support stable containers.
01:22:37	terence:	Replying to "what about APIs that..."

will have to maintain 2 libs even post fork
01:22:40	Dustin:	Replying to "BAL is 100% separa..."

right, it's possible it changes to a ProgressiveList or similar
01:22:41	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "I would say now is..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:44	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "sounds like most tea..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:46	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "BAL is 100% separate" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:22:47	Dustin:	Replying to "BAL is 100% separa..."

but it's a localized thing
01:22:47	nflaig:	Reacted to "I would say now is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:48	NC:	Reacted to "sounds like most tea..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:51	NC:	Reacted to "I would say now is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:51	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "sounds like most t..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:55	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "sounds like most tea..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:59	Potuz:	Replying to "BAL is 100% separate"

I think it's just like any other field in the payload right?
01:22:59	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "sounds like most tea..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:00	Dustin:	Reacted to "I would say now is..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:04	nflaig:	Reacted to "sounds like most tea..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:06	Dustin:	Reacted to "sounds like most t..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:07	Potuz:	Replying to "BAL is 100% separate"

it will change the way we merkleize
01:23:14	Dustin:	Yeah, I'm trying to proxy for him
01:23:15	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "I would say now is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:17	Dustin:	but he's better
01:24:04	Dustin:	Replying to "what about APIs th..."

well, or one SSZ library which can support both
01:24:15	Yann Vonlanthen:	Replying to "For the finality par..."

Thatâ€™s a good point. We are working on a draft.

Exact trade-offs will also depend on how much we can squeeze out of networking. With new p2p improvements on the horizon, potentially things could be better than expected. In any case more consolidation will  always be better for fast finality, even more so in a PQ world.
01:24:41	Barnabas:	Not really a consensus related question, but we should consider working on making the engine ssz compatible. Maybe this is for a future call, but would like to open this box today, if we get some time in the end.
01:24:45	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "Thatâ€™s a good point...." with ğŸ‘
01:25:10	Yann Vonlanthen:	Reacted to "For the finality par..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:14	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "Not really a consens..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:17	Pari:	Reacted to "Not really a consens..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:26	Potuz:	That's the best Trojan horse we needed
01:25:28	Pari:	Thats more of an ACDE question tbh
01:25:32	Dustin:	Replying to "BAL is 100% separa..."

Well, to the extent one might remove the arbitrary lmits in `List`
01:25:40	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Thats more of an ACD..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:25:40	Pari:	They are the ones that have the harder time integrating SSZ, not the CLs
01:25:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "Thats more of an ACD..."

probably, but the CL has to support it too
01:25:45	Potuz:	Reacted to "Well, to the extent ..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:51	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "They are the ones th..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:58	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Not really a consens..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:58	Barnabas:	Reacted to "That's the best Troj..." with ğŸ´
01:26:01	Potuz:	Replying to "Thats more of an ACD..."

for us that change is surely trivial
01:26:05	lightclient:	I thought we were going to CFI focil?
01:26:39	Potuz:	Replying to "I thought we were go..."

DFI you mean?
01:26:48	lightclient:	Replying to "I thought we were go..."

DFI for glamsterdam, CFI for heka
01:27:49	Dustin:	I mean we can and do
01:28:06	Phil Ngo:	Stating here that we are ok with SFI
01:28:07	Barnabas:	prysm == potuz
01:28:12	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "prysm == potuz" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:12	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "prysm == potuz" with ğŸ˜…
01:28:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I do think itâ€™s a bit problematic to SFI without EL client input tbh
01:28:19	lightclient:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a bi..."

yeah
01:28:19	NC:	Reacted to "prysm == potuz" with ğŸ˜…
01:28:20	Barnabas:	Replying to "prysm == potuz"

its a hive mind anyways
01:28:22	0x:	Reacted to "prysm == potuz" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:36	Dustin:	Nimbus is fine CFI'ing FOCIL for Heka
01:28:45	lightclient:	Replying to "Nimbus is fine CFI'i..."

CFI or SFI?
01:28:48	terence:	besides clients teams, what about the community?
01:28:48	lightclient:	Replying to "Nimbus is fine CFI'i..."

Weâ€™re asking about SFI
01:28:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	At best it should be a proposal to be confirmed next week on acde
01:28:49	Barnabas:	SFI != CFI lmao
01:28:53	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus is fine CFI..."

SFI is fine
01:29:02	Potuz:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a bi..."

I think the biggest issue is that there're teams working on contending
01:29:03	felix (eest):	Replying to "prysm == potuz"

shout out to ethpandaops for maintaining the hive mind
01:29:03	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a bi..." 

 Agree! Independent of sfi'ing too early
01:29:27	terence:	can we revisit this in 2 weeks and have client teams all have a formal decision?
01:29:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a biâ€¦"
@Potuz not sure I understand what you mean?
01:29:45	saulius:	Grandine is fine with CFI'ing FOCIL for Heka.
01:29:53	Potuz:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a bi..."

this UI sucks
01:30:00	Potuz:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a bi..."

I think it's unfair to 6 seconds
01:30:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "this UI sucks" with ğŸ˜‚
01:30:03	Potuz:	Replying to "I do think itâ€™s a bi..."

if we do SFI
01:30:05	0x:	Reacted to "I think it's unfai..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:08	nixo:	Replying to "Grandine is fine wit..."

the question is SFI
01:30:08	Marc:	Iâ€™m happy with SFI, need to double check with rest of nethermind team but generally think they support
01:30:10	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think it's unfair ..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:15	Trent:	Sounds like this might need to be an async tally bc weâ€™re getting individual perspectives mixed in
01:30:19	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "SFI != CFI lmao"

This is a nightmare for Italians, sorry :-)
01:30:24	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Sounds like this mig..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:25	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	What does this (sfi'ing focil) mean to the headliner selection process for heka on the CL?
01:30:28	Satyajit:	Reacted to "Sounds like this m..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:37	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "What does this (sfi'..." with ğŸ‘
01:30:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Well SFI seems contentious for now, we can just CFI now and then see if we want to fast track SFI over the next few weeks already
01:30:59	Barnabas:	This same question came up in previous acdc call
01:31:08	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Well SFI seems conte..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:12	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Well SFI seems conte... with "ğŸ‘"
01:31:23	nixo:	i volunteer as tribute to poll client teams over the next two weeks and have a definitive proposal for moving forward for CFI or SFI

OK sounds like itâ€™s just going to ACDE
01:31:26	lightclient:	Everyone is okay with CFI, just make it CFI and we can discuss SFI in the future
01:31:30	Potuz:	Replying to "SFI != CFI lmao"

lol
01:31:32	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay wit..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:36	terence:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay wit..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:39	Katya:	Reacted to "i volunteer as tribu..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:45	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay wit..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:47	sean:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay w..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:52	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay wit..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:55	Potuz:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay wit..." with ğŸ‘
01:31:57	nixo:	Reacted to "This is a nightmare ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:32:10	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Everyone is okay wit... with "ğŸ‘"
01:32:16	0x:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay w..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:19	Satyajit:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay w..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:37	Dustin:	Reacted to "Everyone is okay w..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:41	Potuz:	I think it's fine to determine this on ACDE TBH, everyone involved will be there
01:33:09	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I think it's unfair ... with "ğŸ‘"
01:33:11	lightclient:	FOCIL is CFI as of today though right?
01:33:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think it's fine toâ€¦"
We are just so swamped there, I will try hard to 5min time box it
01:33:18	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "FOCIL is CFI as of t..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:18	Potuz:	Replying to "i volunteer as tribu..."

you should do the poll anyway
01:33:22	terence:	Replying to "FOCIL is CFI as of t..."

yes i believe so
01:33:24	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Reacted to "FOCIL is CFI as of t..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:27	0x:	Reacted to "FOCIL is CFI as of..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:27	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to FOCIL is CFI as of t... with "ğŸ‘"
01:33:39	nixo:	Replying to "i volunteer as tribu..."

okay, will do. cuz we canâ€™t just keep repeating the discussion ad infinitum
01:33:44	Dima Gusakov | Lido:	Replying to "FOCIL is CFI as of t..."

For Heka
01:33:49	Potuz:	Replying to "FOCIL is CFI as of t..."

yes
01:33:50	Barnabas:	Reacted to "for us that change i..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:52	Katya:	Reacted to "you should do the po..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:55	Justin Traglia:	Bye everyone ğŸ‘‹
