00:03:58	nixo:	gm post-Fusaka world
00:04:02	Ben Edgington:	gm
00:04:06	Stefan Starflinger:	gm
00:04:18	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Gm survivors
00:04:20	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:04:21	Christine Kim:	gm
00:04:27	Pooja Ranjan:	gm
00:04:30	Renaud-ZKNOX:	gm fusaka
00:04:30	Lean F | Ethrex:	gm
00:04:35	nixo:	Reacted to "Gm survivors" with üòÇ
00:05:10	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg" with üî•
00:05:11	nixo:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg" with ü´®
00:05:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	oof, audio issues, one sec
00:05:19	Alexey:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg" with üòÇ
00:05:36	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg" with ü´®
00:05:37	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg" with üî•
00:05:38	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg" with üòÇ
00:05:57	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "oof, audio issues, o..." with üëç
00:06:01	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg"

you really think this train ever stops?
00:06:38	Barnabas:	Replying to "Screenshot2025_12_04_150102.jpg"

I‚Äôd like to propose us to start using the hungarian alphabet instead of the english, so we have a longer runway (44 letters)
00:07:16	Zsolt Felf√∂ldi:	Replying to "Barnabas has sent yo..."

Do we have a star name starting with "gy"?
00:07:28	nixo:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1808
00:07:50	terence:	happy to speak on the prysm issue
00:08:02	Barnabas:	Think it was mostly prysm related bug.
00:08:09	nixo:	https://notes.ethereum.org/Qcl9AZy6SiWAoTCSwDUTJg
00:10:07	Nicolas Consigny:	Just for planning purpose : I Would like to make a quick point about the EIP process (discussion and deadline dates) before talking about crypto agility and PQ precompiles @Ansgar Dietrichs¬†
00:10:31	Barnabas:	Wouldn‚Äôt it be generally better to have a hotfix release out asap, with the flag enabled by default, then work on a proper fix and make a minor release?

For most operators its a lot easier to push a new version, vs adding a custom flag.
00:11:26	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	Replying to "Just for planning pu..." 

 Is it on the agenda?
00:11:38	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Just for planning pu..."

yes
00:11:45	Potuz:	GM crap I missed Terence's update
00:11:52	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Just for planning pu..."

not the meta point but the precompiles yes
00:11:58	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Just for planning pu..."

but because both are linked
00:12:05	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Just for planning pu..."

would like to make the point
00:12:21	nixo:	Reacted to "GM crap I missed Ter..." with üòÑ
00:12:26	Potuz:	Not really, it was the same bug as in Capella
00:12:28	Potuz:	resurfaced
00:12:31	draganrakita:	Reacted to "GM crap I missed Ter..." with üòÑ
00:12:54	Barnabas:	I have delegated my vocal box to Stefan üòÑ
00:13:01	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I have delegated my ..." with üòÇ
00:13:02	terence:	participation back up to ~98%
00:13:04	draganrakita:	Reacted to "I have delegated my ..." with üòÇ
00:13:05	Katya:	Reacted to "I have delegated my ..." with üòÇ
00:13:09	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:34	stokes:	Reacted to "participation back u‚Ä¶" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:34	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:36	Satyajit:	Reacted to "participation back..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:38	Barnabas:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:38	nixo:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:43	frangio:	Reacted to "participation back..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:46	stokes:	bpo1 coming up
00:13:49	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:13:53	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "I have delegated my ..." with üòÇ
00:14:05	draganrakita:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:14:24	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:14:44	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "participation back u..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:15:13	nixo:	also ADCE on Jan 1?
00:15:35	Barnabas:	whoever shows up to acde on jan 1 should be penalized üòÇ
00:15:41	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÖ
00:15:42	nixo:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÖ
00:15:43	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÖ
00:15:45	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÖ
00:15:51	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÇ
00:15:55	Justin Traglia:	Also cancel
00:15:57	nixo:	cancel
00:16:01	soispoke:	Reacted to "Also cancel" with üëç
00:16:03	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "Also cancel" with üëç
00:16:04	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "cancel" with ‚ûï
00:16:05	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÇ
00:16:08	Zsolt Felf√∂ldi:	Reacted to "cancel" with ‚ûï
00:16:09	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Also cancel" with üëç
00:16:09	nixo:	Reacted to "Also cancel" with üëç
00:16:13	Marc:	Reacted to "Also cancel" with üëç
00:16:14	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Also cancel" with üëç
00:16:15	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÇ
00:16:17	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÇ
00:16:17	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "cancel" with ‚ûï
00:16:18	0x:	Reacted to "whoever shows up t..." with üòÖ
00:16:19	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "whoever shows up t..." with üòÖ
00:16:21	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "cancel" with üëç
00:16:22	Jen:	Reacted to "cancel" with ‚ûï
00:16:23	Jen:	Reacted to "cancel" with üëç
00:16:23	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "cancel" with ‚ûï
00:16:26	Renaud-ZKNOX:	A r√©agi √† "cancel" avec ‚ûï
00:16:32	Nicolas Consigny:	One thing on fusaka is the safe RPC issues solved on OP chains ? (I heard unichain had issues yesterday ?)
00:16:34	Katya:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ..." with üòÇ
00:16:53	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "whoever shows up t..." with üòÇ
00:17:02	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	Jan 1st => no sound decisions üòÖ
00:17:09	stokes:	Reacted to "Jan 1st => no sound ‚Ä¶" with üòÇ
00:18:06	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Besu wants FOCIL in G*, definitely for H* too.
00:18:17	Marc:	Nethermind team supports SFI‚Äôing FOCIL
00:18:27	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Nethermind team supp..." with üëç
00:18:33	nixo:	if we go with a headliner proposal process, i have a proposed timeline: https://hackmd.io/@nixorokish/heka-timeline
00:18:49	stokes:	Reacted to "if we go with a head‚Ä¶" with üëÄ
00:18:54	lightclient:	we should do the headliner proccess
00:18:57	stokes:	just this one
00:19:14	Matthew Keil:	we support SFI per h*
00:19:20	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "we should do the hea..." with üëç
00:19:21	Trent:	Feels most consistent to follow the regular headliner process
00:19:25	Trent:	Reacted to "we should do the hea..." with üëç
00:19:26	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "we should do the hea..." with üëç
00:19:35	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	Reacted to "whoever shows up to ‚Ä¶" with üòÇ
00:19:38	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Feels most consisten..." with üëç
00:19:42	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	It was to big to be put on top of ePBS and should now just follow the process as every other EIP.
Having many core devs committing to it is enough committment already, no SFI needed.
00:19:50	Lean F | Ethrex:	Replying to "Besu wants FOCIL in ..."

Ethrex team agrees on this
00:19:58	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we should do the hea..." with üëç
00:20:07	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Feels most consisten..." with üëç
00:20:41	Dustin:	Nimbus still fine with either CFI or SFI for Heka
00:20:53	Barnabas:	Lets aim to have Heka headliners set by end of Jan?
00:21:14	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Feels most consisten..." with üëç
00:21:15	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "we should do the hea..." with üëç
00:21:16	lightclient:	Reacted to "Lets aim to have Hek..." with üëç
00:21:57	Trent:	It‚Äôs clear we are still figuring out the headliner process. And there will be missteps and uncertainty, eg. the last 3 calls and various temp checks. I do not envy being in the position of call coordinator

But we should try to be consistent
00:22:13	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	In teku we ending with a rough consensus with following the standard process. Even if we wanted to push FOCIL
00:23:08	Justin Florentine (Besu):	is pectraA/B a helpful precedent?
00:23:32	Barnabas:	Time to ship fusakA and fusakB
00:23:35	nixo:	Replying to "is pectraA/B a helpf..."

i don‚Äôt think we want to enshrine that mess as process
00:24:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "is pectraA/B a helpf..."

idk, i think the runner up for a headliner should be worth something, and not get forgotten for 6 months.
00:24:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "is pectraA/B a helpf..."

it is nice to have something to do with the overflow
00:24:36	Pooja Ranjan:	+1 to Nico
00:25:02	soispoke:	Reacted to "idk, i think the run..." with üëç
00:25:03	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	Tim had a very clear process doc on ethmag. Not hard to find it.
00:25:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "is pectraA/B a helpf..."

(I also didn't enjoy Pectra A/B) but we never really sorted the root cause
00:25:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Regarding FOCIL, I personally agree we should not make process decisions now that would preempt the H-Star headliner process.

So e.g. FOCIL SFI is reasonable to me only if that doesn‚Äôt make selecting other headliner(s) outright impossible through the later normal headliner process
00:26:01	Barnabas:	Could we please timebox FOCIL ? I feel like we been talking about FOCIL back and forth total 1.5h in the past 3 weeks
00:26:03	nixo:	happy to draft sth but we should at least do it twice before it‚Äôs the ‚Äúrule‚Äù
00:26:25	Nicolas Consigny:	An to my question
00:26:29	soispoke:	Replying to "Could we please time..."

Yeah stopping there sorry
00:26:37	Trent:	Reacted to "Could we please time..." with üëç
00:26:45	Nicolas Consigny:	Is it ok for someone to claim "champion" on an EIP that he didn't write and push it to ACD ?
00:26:55	Barnabas:	Replying to "Is it ok for someone..."

sure
00:26:56	nixo:	Replying to "Is it ok for someone..."

yes
00:26:57	Potuz:	Alex and Ansgar on where the decision will be made
00:26:57	Potuz:	Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDuEA8]
[Full message cannot be displayed on this version]
00:27:05	nixo:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDuEA8]" with üòÇ
00:27:06	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDuEA8]" with üòÇ
00:27:08	soispoke:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDuEA8]" with üòÇ
00:27:13	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Is it ok for someone..."

So authors have to be aware of this imo
00:27:13	Marc:	Replying to "Regarding FOCIL, I p‚Ä¶"
other headliners could be in the same position as FOCIL in this fork - either we can ship it if possible or it could be pushed into next fork
00:27:14	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	To address the PQ precompiles, I was in communication wth the authors and they were aware and supportive of me pushing them for Glamsterdam. I did this instead of writing my own EIPs for the PQ precompiles, which I nearly did.
00:27:16	lightclient:	Idk, I think we should just stop discussing this and do the regular headlining process. Saying there was a chance we would ‚ÄúSFI‚Äù it was a mistake and violated the process
00:27:16	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDuEA8]" with üòÇ
00:27:20	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDu..." with üòÇ
00:27:23	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDuEA8]" with üòÇ
00:27:35	nixo:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with ‚ûï
00:27:36	nflaig:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:v1dTuaCHDu..." with üòÇ
00:27:39	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with üëç
00:27:40	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Idk, I think we shou..."

Strong agree.
00:27:42	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with ‚ûï
00:27:44	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with ‚ûï
00:27:46	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with ‚ûï
00:27:52	Trent:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with ‚ûï
00:27:55	Trent:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with üëç
00:28:46	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Yeah I know but wasn't clear about the impact on the process. THanks for the support BTW much appreciated. I am sure they love to have you has a champion it's just a question of timing
00:28:47	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	SFI'ing FOCIL also impacts work that would happen for 6-seconds slots, which is also a community favourite. Having FOCIL skip the headliner process would be unfair towards other headliners
00:28:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ansgar/glamsterdam-el-pfi-eips
00:29:03	draganrakita:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:29:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:29:22	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

E.g does it make sense to propose PQ precompiles while we don't have ways to deactivate EOAs private keys ?
00:29:37	draganrakita:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..."

Very nice list!
00:29:48	Fig:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:30:04	danceratopz:	Reacted to "Idk, I think we shou..." with ‚ûï
00:30:20	soispoke:	Reacted to "other headliners cou..." with üëç
00:31:03	Ameziane Hamlat:	Yes, besu in favour of it
00:31:09	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	in favor
00:31:28	draganrakita:	EIP-7768 makes sense
00:32:06	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Tim had a very clear..."

Still not even close in terms of traffic compared to https://eips.ethereum.org/  or EIP-1
00:32:32	frangio:	what EIP ?
00:32:43	Renaud-ZKNOX:	A r√©agi √† "To address the PQ ..." avec ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:32:50	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "Tim had a very clear..."

And if the process enforces deadlines for ACD discussion it should definitely be referenced in EIP-1
00:32:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	how many eips are we planning to CFI?
00:32:51	Barnabas:	can we maybe highlight on the screen what we are talking about ?
00:33:02	Trent:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7971
00:33:36	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

It does with 4337, but we need 7851 to enable PQ 7702
00:33:36	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Yes, a full EOA solution is not needed to provide value. a PQ precompile can still be used for smart wallets (safe, 4337) as well as sigining messages.
00:34:02	Renaud-ZKNOX:	A r√©agi √† "Yes, a full EOA so..." avec üëç
00:34:21	Barnabas:	I don‚Äôt think we should limit the number of CFI-ed EIPs now
00:34:28	draganrakita:	Replying to "https://eips.ethereu..."

Imo if this is done for tload/tstore, and it should be done for sload/sstore warm access. Would need to re consider the eip.
00:34:35	Barnabas:	Replying to "I don‚Äôt think we sho..."

we can circle back to DFI-ing them later
00:34:36	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Yep true but then from an ACD POV is "safe + 4337" enough to move the needle or should we bundle it with the a full solution ?
00:34:41	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we can circle back t..." with üëçüèº
00:34:46	Barnabas:	Replying to "I don‚Äôt think we sho..."

if they are tend to be too complex/useless
00:35:00	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

yeah, co-author of 8051 here, we are gratefull to Danno cause we would have missed this spot. Unfortunately too late to push 7851 as well.
00:35:01	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

We have zero solutions if CRPQs arrive early in the window.
00:35:13	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I don‚Äôt think we sho..."

This is good idea, some of these CFI candidates have no testing assessment yet, if we find that they are too complex we can circle back
00:35:20	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

We hit the solidity verifiers (available today)
00:35:41	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Adding one PQ precompile allows software wallets to at least lock value behind a PQ signature, efficiently.
00:35:45	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

1.9M gas for FALCON I would pay that any minute to save my net worth
00:36:04	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Adding one PQ precom..." with üëç
00:36:10	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

But eveveryone at onece? We need something on the order of thousands, not millions, to verify a sig.
00:36:12	Renaud-ZKNOX:	A r√©agi √† "Adding one PQ prec..." avec üëç
00:36:27	Anders Elowsson:	Regarding EIP-8011, the issue with DFI is EIP-8037. We should ideally remain open to a metering approach similar or identical to EIP-8011 that only  is focused on separating state creation, as well as an approach similar or identical to EIP-8075 for this purpose. It would be appropriate to wait with taking a decision on how to process state creation until we know how strong price increases that are necessary. 

I have prepared a document outlining the three different paradigms for how the protocol can process state creation operations: https://notes.ethereum.org/@anderselowsson/3-paradigms-for-state-creation-repricing
00:37:14	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	Did we now skip all repricing EIPs or will they still be discussed?
00:37:27	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Did we now skip all ..." with ‚ùî
00:37:29	Anders Elowsson:	We can take a decision on full 8011 but not restricted 8011 only for state if that makes sense.
00:37:57	Anders Elowsson:	Also Maria is not here today. She is the champions for 8011 so might wanna give her a chance to chime in. Dunno
00:38:47	Nicolas Consigny:	I get your point and we both want PQ resilience ASAP. Still I would rather have a combination of solutions rather than isolated PQ precompiles which could lead ACD to think that "problem is solved". In an emergency scenario not everyone will act fast so EOAs are rekt
00:40:02	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Can‚Äôt the private key actually override the smart EOA signing? So the precompiles actually do not protect against PQ today. Now, there was an EIP to disable private keys floating around
00:40:40	Barnabas:	I think all EIPs that are questionable now, should be just DFIed now.
00:40:58	0xAphrodETH:	Reacted to "I think all EIPs tha..." with üëç
00:41:07	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "I think all EIPs tha..." with ‚ûï
00:41:11	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

No in safe and 4337 no EOA key
00:41:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think we should just CFI all teams S tiers, and then argue that out, and see what remains
00:41:49	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

We need some red button in case of quantum apocalypse. In this case it would imply a freeze. Users would be able to provide a ZK proof of knowledge of a seed from which to derive the PQ keys.
00:42:18	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "We need some red but..." with üëç
00:42:20	nixo:	Reacted to "I think all EIPs tha..." with üëç
00:42:25	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

You just need a BIP44 in circuit
00:42:27	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

> to provide a ZK proof of knowledge of a seed from which to derive the PQ keys.

Yes that should be the case
00:42:28	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

yes
00:42:37	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

like in BIP 44
00:43:01	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Really hope we don‚Äôt get to that
00:43:23	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	DFI, this is micro-optimizations where bigger things are to be done first
00:43:50	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "i think we should ju..." with ‚ûï
00:43:55	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "DFI, this is micro-o..."

BALs at least
00:44:16	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Kill that with fire before it lays eggs!
00:44:23	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üòÇ
00:44:24	Marc:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ‚Ä¶" with üòÇ
00:44:24	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üî•
00:44:34	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üòÇ
00:44:35	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üî•
00:44:36	nixo:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üòÇ
00:44:37	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üòÇ
00:45:00	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

it is like the parachute under your seat in a flight. You don't want to use it. But would refuse the seat that doesn't come with it
00:45:02	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

We can have a smooth transition in H*. That's why I am advocating for ACD to consider a "full" solution ASAP. As I am afraid one isolated PQ precompile could be seen as "good enough for now" until we actually hit the wall
00:45:36	Jen:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üòÇ
00:45:38	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Someone should procude a working ‚Äúemergency zk proof from seed‚Äù circuit instead of talking about it.  Until it‚Äôs been demonstrated it is execisable and as long as we have zero post-quantum DSAs we have zero backup we can activate on short notice.
00:45:42	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

So TLDR PQ precompiles gud. We need them ASAP. But we need ACD to understand that just this doesn't bring PQ resilience nor a good PQ emergency plan
00:45:56	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

My point being a solution could be made but a solution doesn‚Äôt exist.
00:46:26	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üòÇ
00:46:26	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Kill that with fire ..." with üî•
00:46:28	lightclient:	I feel like we should go through the things we really want in the fork before going through the less desired ones?
00:46:35	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	why are we discussing cfi for eg. 7971, which was more contentious, but not for 7976 which was S-tiered for 4/5 clients
00:46:39	Greg K | Lido:	Isn't 7903 contradicting with 7907?
00:46:40	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

this zk proof is actually easy to implement. There is just no business model behind it.
00:46:42	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

I think Bitcoin people did it already ? OP_STARK_VERIFY does it no ?
00:46:45	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "I feel like we shoul..." with ‚ûï
00:47:05	frangio:	Reacted to "I feel like we sho..." with ‚ûï
00:47:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I feel like we shoul..." with ‚ûï
00:47:22	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I feel like we shoul..." with ‚ûï
00:47:45	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I feel like we shoul..."

we spent a lot of work doing the tiering, should be using that.
00:47:57	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

We don‚Äôt have an equivelant OP_STARK_VERIFY protoype for ethereum. It falls into the joke about a mathamatician not putting out a fire because a ‚Äúsolution exists‚Äù
00:48:02	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	I think we can increase contract size without chunking, just wouldn't go to 256kb
00:48:02	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

Any zk dev can ship this. Only thing missing is the incentive maybe. There is no UX problem with this proof being long to compute (and verification will be fast).
00:48:39	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Ok let's discuss business model shouldn't be a problem here
00:48:43	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

It just takes some time, one must implement HMAC512 in circuit
00:48:44	draganrakita:	Replying to "I think we can incre..."

48kb would be great, even 32kb would be good, it is definetly needed.
00:48:45	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "I think we can incre..."

Not sure about that. CODECOPY already has pricing broken without code chunking
00:48:49	lightclient:	Wait you can‚Äôt have them together?
00:49:03	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I think we can incre..."

I'm fine with everything up to ~64kb
00:49:10	draganrakita:	Reacted to "I'm fine with everyt..." with üëç
00:49:11	nixo:	we got outreach from an indexer on 7708, they feel very strongly on its inclusion: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/community-feedback-on-non-headlining-features-in-glamsterdam/26410/6?u=nixo 

he couldn‚Äôt come today, but added it to the agenda this morning
00:49:17	frangio:	Replying to "To address the PQ ..."

the implementation is not the difficult part but the analysis of how viable it is as a solution. keys are not all derived from seed phrases. see MPC, also keys from KMS
00:50:04	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "To address the PQ ..."

let's hope those power users will have a higher migration rate
00:50:07	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

To be a real emergency solution I would want to see somehting that is in a state it could be live on chain within 30 days of notice.
00:50:32	draganrakita:	Would say kill it, but it is low priority
00:50:36	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

That was a response to your previous point " Until it‚Äôs been demonstrated it is execisable" well if it has been implemented elsewhere we could consider it has been demonstrated. But ofc agree with you on the need to do it asap on ethereum
00:50:40	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	this is cleanup, low effort but low value TBH
00:50:46	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "this is cleanup, low..." with üëç
00:50:47	draganrakita:	Reacted to "this is cleanup, low..." with üëç
00:50:48	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "To be a real emergen..." with ü§ù
00:51:03	Justin Florentine (Besu):	but also low risk?
00:51:08	Trent:	Replying to "I think we can incre..."

Should something related to contract size be CFId then?
00:51:12	Barnabas:	if we keep postponing decisions, we gonna have the same call again in 2 weeks
00:51:30	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Should something rel..." with üëç
00:51:31	Trent:	Replying to "I think we can incre..."

It doesn‚Äôt appear to marked that way, and I know the dev ecosystem is interested
00:51:33	lightclient:	CFI it
00:51:39	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "if we keep postponin..."

not trying to postpone, just think we need to consider it at the end
00:52:05	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "Wait you can‚Äôt ha..."

7903 removes the initcode cap, 7907 keeps the cap but increases the value. 

7907 also increases the max contract code size.
00:52:22	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

exercisable would be nice, but go live with 30 dyas of notice is what I would want to see to call it a viable emergency solution. That doesn‚Äôt require an execrised solution, but I would expect it to be a bit furhter along than ‚Äúbitcoin can do it‚Äù
00:52:23	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "Wait you can‚Äôt ha..."

I think 7907 is the most appropriate choice here
00:52:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it'd be an ERC-20 log i'd imagine
00:52:31	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

To be a real emergency solution I would want to see somehting that is in a state it could be live on chain within 30 days of notice.
I agree very much. We have the same goals here. My fear was just that we will burry our heads in the sand if we have one PQ precompile
00:52:33	draganrakita:	Reacted to "I think 7907 is the ..." with üëç
00:52:43	draganrakita:	Reacted to "it'd be an ERC-20 lo..." with üëç
00:52:43	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "if we keep postpon..." with üëç
00:52:47	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

I‚Äôm not stopping at one PQ precompile, trust me.
00:52:54	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

Ok good
00:53:10	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "it'd be an ERC-20 lo..." with üëç
00:53:24	Renaud-ZKNOX:	A r√©agi √† "I‚Äôm not stopping ..." avec üëç
00:53:29	Dustin:	Nimbus position: https://pureth.guide/glamsterdam/#future (i.e. 7708 doesn't suffice on its own)
00:53:40	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Reacted to "Nimbus position: htt..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:54:20	draganrakita:	Replying to "Nimbus position: htt..."

What is missing?
00:54:24	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Shipping 7708 + 7745 together makes a lot of sense
00:55:13	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus position: h..."

"Ensuring that the ETH balance is exactly the difference of all inputs minus all outputs is essential for reliable accounting, and removes the requirement for external indexers for basic wallet and dApp usecases. This should cover all initiated transactions, all inner non-zero value transfers, all fee payments (base + priority have different recipients!), beacon chain operations, as well as original genesis balances. How exactly this is done needs more discussion. Only doing EIP-7708 is insufficient to remove external indexers as certain ETH balance changes are still not covered."
00:55:15	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	7745 is headliner size
00:55:41	Dustin:	Replying to "Nimbus position: h..."

it enumerates other omitted cases
00:55:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to ""Ensuring that the E..." with üî•
00:55:54	Mario Vega:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

Due to ssz formatting right? or something else?
00:56:10	Marc:	was A tier for us so I guess CFI
00:56:23	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

just sheer complexity, ssz adds even more
00:56:30	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "just sheer complexit..." with üëçüèº
00:56:44	draganrakita:	Reacted to "just sheer complexit..." with üëçüèº
00:56:55	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "To address the PQ pr..."

> Someone should procude a working ‚Äúemergency zk proof from seed‚Äù circuit 

let's create a group for this @Renaud-ZKNOX¬†@Danno Ferrin (Tectonic)¬† will reach out on signal
00:57:20	Dustin:	Replying to "7745 is headliner ..."

SSZ formatting per se is only part of it
00:57:27	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

@Mario Vega for 7745 the proof format is still a wip other than that the complexity of the filtermap impl is itself also is quite complex
01:00:23	Barnabas:	cfi it
01:00:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	cfi it
01:01:22	Zsolt Felf√∂ldi:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

Python EELS is not terribly complex but I agree it's not trivial. I hope I can finish the missing spec parts like proof format and wire protocol ext in december.
01:01:36	SanLeo:	Replying to "To address the PQ ..."

I'm potentially interested in helping on this, could I be added to the group?
@sanleo on discord, or @sanleo461 on tg
01:01:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	sorry that this is so tedious, but if we come out of this call with 10-15 clear individual EIP decisions, that really makes our job much easier on the rest
01:02:12	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Cfi it
01:02:14	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Python EELS is not t..." with üëçüèº
01:02:47	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "Cfi it"

There are EOF tests as well, it had plenty coverage
01:02:49	wolovim:	Reacted to "sorry that this is s..." with üíØ
01:02:50	Zsolt Felf√∂ldi:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

I also think I can have a devnet geth implementation by first half of jan, then we'll see.
01:03:15	lightclient:	But we still have the legacy without the call and returns? So we can‚Äôt transpile it
01:03:24	Dustin:	Replying to "7745 is headliner ..."

These still point to major missing elements, nonreadiness and inability to sufficiently assess its overall complexity
01:03:39	Luis Pinto | Besu:	New contracts will have guarantees from what I read from the EIP
01:03:39	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "But we still have th..." with üëÄ
01:03:48	Dustin:	Replying to "7745 is headliner ..."

proof format and wire protocol are not small side points
01:03:51	lightclient:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

Sure, but there are a lot not new contracts
01:04:21	Zsolt Felf√∂ldi:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

I don't see these as major missing elements but still, I'll finish my proposed specs so we can discuss it further.
01:04:26	lightclient:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

Also it would require solidity to integrate it too, not like we get benefits of it for free
01:04:31	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "sorry that this is..."

A small issue in the process is that there is no prioritization taken into account.

So if we CFI 10 EIPs with lower priority and keep it open about some others "a bit more important" due to technical questions being open, then the volume of CFIed EIPs might lead to DFI-ing the remaining ones (even more important)
01:04:46	Barnabas:	How complex is it to implement 7979?
01:04:47	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "sorry that this is..." with üëç
01:04:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "sorry that this is s..." with üíØ
01:04:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "sorry that this is s..." with üëç
01:04:56	lightclient:	Replying to "How complex is it to..."

Not too bad
01:05:03	Alexey:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

disallow calls to old ones?
01:05:14	Marc:	Replying to "How complex is it to‚Ä¶"
as lukasz mentioned may be already implemented for EOF
01:05:25	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

They were eager to have EOF even
01:05:31	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

We will have a nimbus el impl in jan to do a devnet too but both me and etan are of the opinion its better to get 7745 for h star
01:05:43	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "sorry that this is s..."

yeah, it‚Äôs hard to make decisions in a vacuum
01:05:52	lightclient:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

We can‚Äôt disallow calls to old contracts ü§£
01:06:02	draganrakita:	Replying to "How complex is it to..."

Two opcodes, that push, pop PC to local Interpreter stack.
01:06:25	Alexey:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

from new ones man
01:06:29	Dustin:	Replying to "7745 is headliner ..."

Lukasz wrong thread?
01:06:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "But we still have th..."

0xEF has entered the chat
01:06:52	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "0xEF has entered the..." with üòÇ
01:06:58	Zsolt Felf√∂ldi:	Reacted to "0xEF has entered the..." with üòÇ
01:07:02	lightclient:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

We‚Äôre not going to fragment contract calling the EVM
01:07:14	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Reacted to "0xEF has entered the..." with üòÇ
01:07:24	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

sorry
01:07:32	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "0xEF has entered the..." with üòÇ
01:07:52	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

But we still have the legacy without the call and returns? So we can‚Äôt transpile itjust price it out with timeyou can transpile that too, we did that, the result is just quite messy and unoptimised
01:08:11	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "0xEF has entered the..." with üòÇ
01:08:18	Marc:	why are people against this EIP?
01:08:20	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	no compiler wants to optimise several tens of thousands instruction function
01:08:25	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "But we still have th..."

It‚Äôs additive and doesn‚Äôt break any deployed contracts. What other solution do you want?
01:08:43	frangio:	Replying to "why are people aga..."

because it's a rehash of EOF
01:08:48	Milos:	Reacted to "> to provide a ZK ..." with üòÇ
01:08:55	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "why are people again..." 

 Complexity and prioritization
01:09:00	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Complexity and prior..." with üëç
01:09:00	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	I am fine with CFIng it for Glamsterdam :)
01:09:03	Marc:	Replying to "why are people again‚Ä¶"
way smaller though right
01:09:44	Luis Pinto | Besu:	>no compiler wants to optimise several tens of thousands instruction function

Not every compiler do exclusive full method body optimizations. Look into OSR
01:09:53	Marc:	Reacted to "I am fine with CFIng‚Ä¶" with ‚ûï
01:09:56	Dustin:	Replying to "7745 is headliner ..."

@Tamaghna Choudhuri this also is a data point regarding complexity modulo SSZ, because that aspect is significantly reduced due to Nimbus having an SSZ stack
01:10:46	nixo:	@Greg Colvin we (my team, protocol support) will reach out to you about setting up a breakout call
01:11:00	Dustin:	Replying to "why are people aga..."

I assume there are arguments for, beyond "industry standard"?
01:11:00	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "@Greg Colvin we (my ..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:11:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Complexity and prior..." with üëç
01:11:15	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	I'm for breakout room!
01:11:22	Chris Berry:	Reacted to "@Greg Colvin we (my ..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:11:32	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "I'm for breakout roo..." with ‚ûï
01:11:43	frangio:	what is the point about optimizations? why does the transpiled code need to be optimized? we don't optimize EVM code once deployed
01:11:47	Mario Vega:	Replying to "why are people again..."

This section looks tricky to get correctly tested: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7979#constraints-on-valid-code
01:11:52	≈Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "why are people again..."

because it's a rehash of EOFEOF the most important parts
01:12:19	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Replying to "why are people again..."

It would be helpful if Solidity or Vyper would share their opinion on it. I am also missing who wants to include it
01:12:26	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "It would be helpful ..." with üëçüèº
01:12:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "It would be helpful ..." with üëçüèº
01:13:21	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "It would be helpful ..." with üëçüèº
01:13:39	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	DFI EIP-7619 - The NIST handlers in the las few weeks have made it clear Falcon / FN-DSA-206 will be undergoing a lot of changes in the next year.  We don‚Äôt want Keccak/SHA3 again.
01:14:16	draganrakita:	About EIP-8024 it would be simpler and maybe better to use SWAPN PUSH x00 format. CFI for sure
01:14:31	Dustin:	Reacted to "DFI EIP-7619 - The..." with üëç
01:14:43	Marc:	Replying to "DFI EIP-7619 - The N‚Ä¶"
you think we should go with ML-DSA instead then?
01:14:48	jimjim:	Sorry just joined. No FOCIL? ü•∫
01:14:59	Barnabas:	whats wrong with 8030?
01:15:02	Nicolas Consigny:	8052
01:15:10	Renaud-ZKNOX:	Dilithium Pros:
Web2 adoption (chromium, tls, probable future of passkeys)
FIPS204 stabilized
MPC/ZK more friendly (less hashing)
HW vendors + first HW implementation
 
Dilithium Cons:
slower than falcon, higher bandwidth and key sizes
hashing not separable from core operations like in 8052 FALCON (7619 is monolithic)
01:15:10	Marius van der Wijden:	I think its to early to pick a pq sig winner at this moment. I think its important to continue the expkoratory work though
01:15:14	Greg Colvin:	8013 depends on 7979, and I proposed it on the chance that the objections to 7979 are that it is too simple.  So DFI is appropriate.
01:15:16	Dustin:	Replying to "Sorry just joined...."

You missed FOCIL
01:15:33	jimjim:	Reacted to "You missed FOCIL" with üòÆ
01:15:36	Justin Florentine (Besu):	CFI? 8051
01:16:58	Nicolas Consigny:	CFI 8052 I'm in favor too
01:16:59	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	We will want both ML-DSA and FN-DSA, the issue is FN-DSA is getting some non-trivial revisions in data formats in the next year
01:17:11	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "you think we should ..." with üëç
01:18:24	Barnabas:	we just included the secp256r opcode in fusaka, why not have the matching 8030 ?
01:18:31	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Are clients fully against EIP-7932 or just for Glamsterdam?
01:18:35	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "DFI EIP-7619 - The N..."

Agreed with Danno we want ML-DSA as it is today. FN-DSA I'm following very closely the process and I think they'll not do the revisions but it's indeed a bet
01:18:40	draganrakita:	P256 tx is interesting, should definitelly be considered for later hardforks
01:18:57	frangio:	Replying to "P256 tx is interes..."

isn't it superceded by native AA?
01:19:10	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "Are clients fully ag..."

Two unrelated issues: SSZ transacitions and alternat sig algos. It‚Äôs packing two unrelated issues into one EIP
01:19:11	Nicolas Consigny:	P 256 tx I strongly oppose the curve isn't "nothing under the sleeve" also not PQ aligned
01:19:17	draganrakita:	Replying to "P256 tx is interesti..."

What is EIP for native AA?
01:19:25	Mario Vega:	8030 requires 7932 no?
01:19:40	frangio:	Replying to "P256 tx is interes..."

7701
01:19:43	Renaud-ZKNOX:	R√©pondre √† "P256 tx is interes..."

7701
01:19:50	Barnabas:	Replying to "8030 requires 7932 n..."

thought it would only require the 256r precompile.
01:20:11	draganrakita:	Reacted to "7701" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:20:13	draganrakita:	Reacted to "7701" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:20:29	Mario Vega:	Replying to "8030 requires 7932 n..."

EIP states it in the ‚ÄúRequires‚Äù section
01:21:56	Renaud-ZKNOX:	A r√©agi √† "P 256 tx I strongl..." avec ‚ûï
01:22:04	Marc:	Reacted to "P 256 tx I strongly ‚Ä¶" with ‚ûï
01:22:19	Barnabas:	thanks for circling back guys. Feel free to DFI both.
01:22:26	frangio:	my assumption is there should be a new PQ tx type in the future, all other kinds of signatures should go through AA. is there no consensus about this?
01:22:44	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Replying to "7745 is headliner si..."

üòÜ
Yeah nimbus does already have good starting point for ssz parts hence its in a really good position to gauge the difficulty of just the filtermap logic + proof format + wire protocol has from the devnet in jan .

That will put more light on a clearer  point on the non-SSZ side for others
01:23:02	Marius van der Wijden:	Dfi ssz for now pls
01:23:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Dfi ssz for now pls" with üëÄ
01:23:11	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Dfi ssz for now pls" with ‚ûï
01:23:32	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	It should be a cryptographically agile TX type, one that can accept multiple algorithms and evolve over time. The real PQ theme is Crypto Agile implementations.
01:23:40	Marius van der Wijden:	Purely out of protocol
01:23:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Dfi ssz for now pls" with ‚ûï
01:23:52	Dustin:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

"for now", the perpetual SSZ library issue
01:24:21	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "It should be a crypt..." with ü§ù
01:24:50	frangio:	Reacted to "It should be a cry..." with üëÄ
01:25:26	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

Ok, let‚Äôs formalize in the EL never doing SSZ when RLP can work. no need to keep this going.
01:25:35	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "my assumption is the..."

Crypto agility yes please. The PQ era will be a land of new primitives we don't want Ethereum to be stuck. We shouldn't go all in on one scheme
01:26:33	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls" 

 Not really just the library issue imo, just general prioritization. Other features are just more important in my opinion
01:26:52	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Crypto agility yes p..." with ‚ûï
01:26:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "my assumption is the..."

i don't think tx signatures should be left up to only the application layer. a signature type byte goes a long way to future proofing ethereum.
01:27:08	Marius van der Wijden:	Oh we also need a fully coordinated rollout for eth/70
01:27:19	Marius van der Wijden:	We could bundle it with a bpo
01:27:25	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We could bundle it w..." with üëç
01:27:40	Barnabas:	Yeah I think non protocol coordinated things should be targetting BPOs
01:27:57	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

‚ÄòNot Now‚Äô is indistinguishable with ‚Äònever‚Äô when there is no threshold to cross.  What is that threshold? Needing other issues to clear out will never change because new issues will always be considered more important.
01:28:21	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Dfi ssz for now pls" with ‚ûï
01:28:30	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

A flat ‚Äúno‚Äù will make planning easier.
01:29:16	draganrakita:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

Imo, I could live with not doing ssz at all. It will always be a low priority imo.
01:29:19	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	Yeah the center of gravity for this is the EL
01:29:33	Dustin:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

On very few topics, though, is there a commitment to "never" in a positive sense
01:29:38	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

Put Claude working on it
01:29:46	Dustin:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

It would be strange to do that specifically for SSZ
01:29:54	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	SG, thanks!
01:29:54	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "my assumption is the..."

Also L2s can experiment with non L1 signaures with a type byte, for example. If they don‚Äôt have issues with P256 they can support P256 without requiring L1 ot adopt.
01:30:03	Josh Davis:	CFI
7778
7708
7843
8024
8070*

DFI
8011
8053
8059
8057
7791
7819
7979
8013
7619
7932
8030
6404
6466

Delay
7971
8032
7903
7668
01:30:18	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:30:27	Rafael Matias:	Reacted to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:30:37	Fig:	Reacted to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:30:38	Guru:	Reacted to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:30:44	Toni Wahrst√§tter:	Can we talk about some of the repricing EIPs such as the calldata one, which had big support by clients?
01:30:47	Nicolas Consigny:	8052 CFI ?
01:30:50	Dustin:	Replying to "Dfi ssz for now pls"

@Luis Pinto | Besu there are already a half-dozen Go SSZ libraries. They're all lacking in some way, apparently
01:31:02	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

8052 CFI I think
01:31:09	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

the other was DFIed
01:31:15	Josh Davis:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

That decision was not made
01:31:28	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

8052 DFI, it‚Äôs another falcon EIP.
01:31:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Put Claude working o..." with üòÇ
01:31:44	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

Sorry sorry
01:31:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@anderselowsson/3-paradigms-for-state-creation-repricing
01:31:49	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

8051 I meant
01:32:01	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

crosses fingers for FN-DSA ready for H-star*
01:32:08	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

I think we said DFI for falcon CFI for ML DSA
01:32:26	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "crosses fingers for ..." with üëç
01:32:33	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

ML-DSA was in the more discussion list
01:32:37	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

yep yep but 8051 for glamsterdam right ?
01:32:41	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I think we said DFI ..." with üòÇ
01:32:42	draganrakita:	EIP-7907: Meter Contract Code Size And Increase Limit sounds good for Glamsterdam
01:32:45	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

We didn‚Äôt make a decision on 8051(ML-DSA)
01:32:52	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "ML-DSA was in the mo..." with üëç
01:32:52	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

More discussion list, neithr C nor D FI
01:32:55	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "We didn‚Äôt make a dec..." with ‚ûï
01:32:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	https://gist.github.com/zsfelfoldi/3f0f44c4ac0fb940907f9fa714d2334c
01:33:01	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to We didn‚Äôt make a dec... with "‚ûï"
01:33:02	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:33:07	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

Ah ok
01:33:09	frangio:	Reacted to "EIP-7907: Meter Co..." with üëç
01:33:24	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

Ok ok
01:33:44	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "8052 CFI ?"

My bad next call
01:34:04	Marius van der Wijden:	Dfi max blob flag, shouldn't be an eip
01:34:21	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "EIP-7907: Meter Cont..."

I don‚Äôt get, why fixing things with a patch while we could fix it in the design? how can you remove contract size limits without something like code chunking?
01:34:21	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Dfi max blob flag, s..." 

 Clients should just implement it
01:34:37	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to I don‚Äôt get, why fix... with "üëç"
01:34:43	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
01:34:52	Barnabas:	Do we plan to make a decision on every single EIP next acde? So we can go to the end of the year break with knowing which EIPs are DFI/CFI-ed?
01:34:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We didn‚Äôt make a dec..." with ‚ûï
01:35:04	Barnabas:	Replying to "Dfi max blob flag, s..."

just do it then üòÑ
01:35:05	draganrakita:	One by one please, most (maybe all) should be CFI-ed
01:35:15	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Dfi max blob flag, s..." 

 I have a pr
01:35:19	Josh Davis:	HEKOTA
01:35:24	Barnabas:	Replying to "Dfi max blob flag, s..."

lets go
01:35:31	Nicolas Consigny:	Replying to "CFI
7778
7708
7843
8..."

I was confused it was nowhere in the list
01:35:34	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	But what‚Äôs the mascot animal, we can‚Äôt end yet!
01:35:41	nixo:	Reacted to "But what‚Äôs the masco..." with ü´®
01:35:41	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Dfi max blob flag, s..." 

 I think it was already merged even
01:35:42	Barnabas:	Reacted to "But what‚Äôs the masco..." with ü´®
01:35:55	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "EIP-7907: Meter Co..." with üëç
