00:08:36	Lucas:	Transaction receipt change
PR:
https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/640 

Ethereum-magician:
https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7702-set-eoa-account-code/19923/383 

HackMD:
https://hackmd.io/@cU7QMf4cQE-bqaR_VenOTw/HyCKM3531e
00:09:32	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "Transaction receipt ..."

Is this is RPC only, not impacting any on-chain executions?
00:09:35	Ben Adams:	eth69 drops Bloom and includes block ranges for history https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7642
00:10:01	lightclient:	ah right, it depends on the current nonce of the authorizer
00:12:48	Mario Vega:	Wouldnâ€™t querying the code of the account be better anyway? Because even if you store the success of a delegation on a particular tx, a subsequent tx could re-delegate
00:13:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	could this not be added to clients at a later time? does this require a hard fork?
00:13:39	Felix:	Replying to "Wouldnâ€™t querying..."

I think same. In the end you want to know if the account is delegated correctly, you can get that by matching on the response to getCode being 0xef01<address>
00:13:42	felipe:	Reacted to "Wouldnâ€™t querying th..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:13:45	Anders Kristansen:	Replying to "could this not be ad..."

Doesnt require a hardfork
00:14:46	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	It feels like the workaround to this proposal, which is using getCode, also requires an archive node to get historical results. The delegation might have change since that Tx
00:16:14	frangio:	another note here is that the delegation can be inspected in the EVM so the entrypoint of the transaction can do the confirmation that the delegation was set
00:17:24	Roman:	thatâ€˜s also a good point
00:19:02	Trent:	ğŸš¢
00:20:52	lightclient:	Reacted to "another note here is..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:53	Marius:	Lets gooo
00:21:29	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7607
00:22:43	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7823
00:22:45	lightclient:	EIP-7907: Meter Contract Code Size And Increase Limit
00:22:56	Dankrad Feist:	Should we CFI a target gas limit increase to 100m?
00:23:06	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Should we CFI a targ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:12	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Should we CFI a targ..." with â•
00:23:18	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..."

I would like this ğŸ˜„
00:23:30	frangio:	Reacted to "Should we CFI a targ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:46	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..." 

 is this an EIP? how do we fix this as a priority?
00:24:03	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "Should we CFI a targ..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:08	Barnabas Busa:	eth69 should be done way before fusaka gets activated
00:24:12	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..."

Get it on a testnet asap, I'd say
00:24:17	Marius:	Replying to "Should we CFI a ta..."

Geth nodes can't even handle 60m at the moment. Running oom
00:24:45	Marius:	Yes
00:24:59	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..." 

 Yes. I'm saying let's try to ensure that we reserve capacity to get there
00:25:00	Marius:	Lets get eth/69 in the next week
00:25:51	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..."

When will we be able to bump sepolia to 60m? What timelines are we talking?
00:25:51	Ben Adams:	My main point is should eth/69 then be moved up in status?
00:26:03	Ben Adams:	Rather than PFI
00:26:11	Marius:	I don't think it needs to be in this list at all
00:27:32	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "Should we CFI a targ..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	so quick process question: what exactly are we freezing today? anything thatâ€™s not CFI after today will not be in the fork?
00:27:43	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..."

+1
00:28:03	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "so quick process que..."

I think so yeah. Today is deadline
00:28:30	Gajinder Singh:	info EIP
00:28:35	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "info EIP" with ğŸ‘
00:28:43	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "info EIP" with ğŸ‘
00:28:45	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "so quick process que..."

anything thatâ€™s not CFI after today will not be in the fork?

yes
00:28:46	Marius:	Replying to "so quick process q..."

Should we just go through the PFI and reject them?
00:28:48	nixo:	Reacted to "so quick process que..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:27	FLCL:	Reacted to "info EIP" with ğŸ‘
00:29:27	nixo:	Reacted to "info EIP" with ğŸ‘
00:29:36	stokes:	Replying to "so quick process que..."

Easier to just raise things we should CFI
00:29:38	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "info EIP" with ğŸ‘
00:29:45	Andrew Ashikhmin:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7783
00:29:52	Gajinder Singh:	or the hardware spec EIP can specify the target
00:30:18	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Or https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7790
00:30:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	clearly we donâ€™t need to freeze gas limit decision today, right?
00:30:31	Marius:	Replying to "so quick process q..."

I think the best would be to quickly go through an reject all where two or more client teams are against
00:30:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "clearly we donâ€™t nee..."

so we should focus on the decisions we actually have to make today
00:30:50	Marius:	Reacted to "so we should focus..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:06	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	An info eip to communicate tested numbers to validators might be the right approach
00:31:07	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "clearly we donâ€™t nee..."

Sure, but this does affect the scope. If we CFI a bunch of EIPs and eat up all our bandwidth, thatâ€™s not great
00:31:20	Åukasz Rozmej:	I thought we wanted to go to 60mln post Pectra and we will see then whats next
00:31:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	agree though, ideally we should aim for something like

Fusaka - 60M
EOY - 100M
00:31:25	nixo:	Reacted to "An info ei to commun..." with â•
00:31:29	Ben Adams:	Related to gaslimit; don't think we want 100M gas txs?EIP-7825: Transaction Gas Limit Cap https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7825
00:31:30	Tim Beiko:	Yeah, I think an info EIP that says â€œweâ€™re trying to reach X gas and fill fix the bugs until there"
00:31:39	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Related to gaslimit;..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:41	Francesco:	Reacted to "Related to gaslimit;..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:41	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Replying to "or the hardware spec..."

Iâ€™d prefer not to overload that EIP tbh
00:31:55	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Related to gaslimit;..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:57	FLCL:	Reacted to "Related to gaslimit;..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:08	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "Yeah, I think an inf..."

yea that specifies the schedule of bumping it
00:32:19	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "or the hardware spec..."

makes sense
00:32:56	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d prefer not to ov..." with â•
00:33:29	Dankrad Feist:	Reacted to Related to gaslimit;... with "ğŸ‘"
00:33:35	Andrew Ashikhmin:	EIP-7825: Transaction Gas Limit Cap
00:33:38	Dankrad Feist:	agree with transaction gas limit
00:33:44	lightclient:	limiting the size of the tx per block is not good for AA through
00:33:51	Dankrad Feist:	this also improves worst case parallelization
00:34:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	cap seems reasonable - also worth noting that we can always remove / modify the cap later. doesnâ€™t lock us in permanently
00:34:13	Marius:	Reacted to "cap seems reasonab..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:13	Åukasz Rozmej:	30 was before we went to 36
00:34:18	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Should we CFI a targ..."

We currently hard-code 30 million in many of our tests, but we could make this value parametrizable in our test-generating framework to make our tests adjust dynamically to these continuous gas increments to mainnet. Created issue here: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/issues/1434
00:34:40	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "limiting the size of..."

but would that be that bad going to 30m. Are there many 30m AA transactions today? If it's only saving 21k then I don't see a big problem
00:34:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	even then, 30M is just not restrictive
00:35:05	Sophia Gold:	Likely 60m gas limit by the time Fusaka is on mainnet
00:35:06	Francesco:	Reacted to "even then, 30M is ju..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we can always lift that once we are at gigagas on mainnet :-)
00:35:13	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "limiting the size of..."

4337-style AA with a bundled entrypoint, but native AA will have no problem
00:35:19	Marius:	Reacted to "even then, 30M is ..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:43	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "limiting the size of..."

4337 style bundling is a barrier to parallelization.
00:35:51	Ameziane Hamlat:	I have already seen 30 mags transactions on Ethereum mainnet. The closer we do transaction gas limit, the better it is.
00:36:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	can we just CFI the cap and then have the discussion async for whether to move it to SFI? clearly there is a lot of support
00:37:07	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "can we just CFI the ..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Also CFI doesnâ€™t mean we have to ship it (SFI it)
00:37:34	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Erigon is in favour of EIP-7825
00:37:47	Sophia Gold:	We want to continuously pump the gas so the longer we wait the more likley this breaks things
00:37:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Re: RIP-7212, weâ€™ll need a new RIP/EIP due to a bug in the 7217 spec: https://github.com/ethereum/RIPs/pull/62/files

Iâ€™d like to talk about this briefly re: its CFI status
00:39:36	Marius:	I would like this as an EIP anyway
00:40:10	Tim Beiko:	This is the list of PFIâ€™d EIPs
00:40:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I would argue for CFI-ing EIP-7762, the blob basefee floor.

to reiterate, this floor is still in the â€œpractically freeâ€ range, so this is not about fee revenue, just efficiency.

Itâ€™s a 4-line spec change, and with peerdas the blob supply will increase enough to otherwise make the fee market quite annoying
00:40:46	lightclient:	increase contract size
00:40:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I would argue for CFâ€¦" with ğŸ‘€
00:41:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I would argue for CF..."

happy to let client teams go first :-)
00:41:38	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Re: RIP-7212, weâ€™ll ..."

We could have found this through testing, I would encourage RIP implementers to use EEST (execution-spec-tests) to write the tests, core protocol also benefits from this because if the RIP makes into mainnet, then we already have tests
00:41:42	Anders Elowsson:	I would like to argue for EIP-7918 instead of EIP-7762. It is a neutral change to fix the fee market
00:41:49	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7907
00:42:03	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I would like to argu..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I would argue for CF..."

to note: Anders had an alternative EIP proposal for this recently that is more sophisticated, but I worry it might be too short notice to CFI today.
00:43:18	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "I would argue for CF..."

I would argue it is just as simple, and also more neutral
00:43:20	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I would argue for CF..."

Ok, then I think we should do @Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin), then @Anders Elowsson and you ğŸ˜„
00:43:41	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "I would like to argu..."

https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7918-blob-base-fee-bounded-by-execution-cost/23271
00:43:48	Marius:	He's busy celebrating his birthday
00:44:08	Åukasz Rozmej:	btw if clients persisted jumpdest analysis bitmap it wouldn't be a problem?
00:44:32	lightclient:	Reacted to "He's busy celebratin..." with ğŸš€
00:44:45	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "btw if clients persi..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:01	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "He's busy celebratin..." with ğŸ¥’
00:45:12	Tim Beiko:	No one else had mentioned 7903/7907 as a preference and ~everyone wants to keep the scope small, so Iâ€™d lean again CFIing it.
00:45:28	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "We could have found ..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:45:29	lightclient:	are any clients against increasing code size in principle? details can be totally agreed on for SFI
00:45:38	Marius:	Replying to "btw if clients per..."

yes it is, because you are doing it in initcode and you can change initcode
00:45:40	Ansgar Dietrichs:	why donâ€™t we just charge proportional to code size in EOF?
00:45:41	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	7903 seems problematic for zkEVMs if you can have arbitrary contract sizes
00:45:46	lightclient:	this is one of the most requested EVM improvements
00:45:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just ch..."

that way we can remove any hard limit
00:45:57	lightclient:	Replying to "7903 seems problemat..."

it isnâ€™t going to be arbitrary
00:46:06	Alex (axic):	Hereâ€™s an encoding of jumpdest analysis as done part of the verkle work: https://github.com/ipsilon/eof/blob/main/spec/eofv0_verkle.md#jumpdest-section-encoding
00:46:41	lightclient:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just ch..."

still need an efficient look up for code size, EOF doesnâ€™t grant this by default AFAIK
00:47:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	sounds reasonable to charge for size and so effectively bound by tx gas limit, instead of having arbitrary code size limit
00:47:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just ch..."

ah, I remember. whatâ€™s the plan for this @Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon ?
00:47:28	frangio:	Reacted to "sounds reasonable to..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:30	lightclient:	itâ€™s easier to reason about if there is an explicit bound separate of tx
00:47:44	Gary Schulte:	Replying to "7903 seems problemat..."

functional code size limit will be one of those unintended consequences of an otherwise innocuous change (block gas limit)
00:48:05	Marius:	same here
00:48:18	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Seems reasonable
00:48:19	lightclient:	Reacted to "functional code size..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just ch..."

and itâ€™s probably impractical to pass the gas limit into the code load, and abort that load once it is too large?
00:48:51	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Have 7907 update the initcode limit
00:48:58	lightclient:	Reacted to "Have 7907 update the..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:59	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Have 7907 update the..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:40	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "Seems reasonable" with â•
00:50:06	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	24k limit was larger than the gas limit at the time.
00:50:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	any issues with forward compatibility here? we could still completely remove the limit in the future, right?
00:50:17	Marius:	Replying to "any issues with fo..."

yes
00:51:10	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Thereâ€™s a code size field in the verkle account proposal.
00:51:19	Charles C:	Reacted to "Thereâ€™s a code si..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:19	FLCL:	may be superficial idea: can code be encoded so length is always dividable by 32 or 1024, so you can store bigger x32/x1024 length
00:51:27	lightclient:	Reacted to "Thereâ€™s a code size ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:19	Charles C:	i'd like to discuss EIP-7923 -- just got merged today (so maybe it's too late for fusaka) but i'd like to get some discussion going around it anyway
00:52:49	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7918
00:53:45	Marius:	Replying to "i'd like to discus..."

This and EOF will be very annoying to test together imo. Not against this proposal, but I don'think we should do it in osaka
00:53:58	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	@Tim Beiko got to somewhere where I can speak :)
00:54:18	Francesco:	My summary: it's also a one line change in the spec, it increases the blob base fee until the blob portion of the cost matches the base execution cost
00:54:32	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:54:37	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:40	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:41	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	I think this is a needed addition alongside PeerDAS
00:54:48	soispoke:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:50	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:51	Potuz:	I like this idea
00:54:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:11	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:26	Tim Beiko:	This is the original EIP by Max that Ansgar referenced:  https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7762
00:55:42	Charles C:	Reacted to "24k limit was larg..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:05	Marius:	We have a constant floor for min-tip in geth, since there is some cost to distributing, verifying, mining the transactions. So I am not opposed to some sort of minimum floor price
00:56:44	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "My summary: it's als..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the only caution with the newer proposal is that it is so recent that it didnâ€™t have full review yet. so I would still want to keep the old proposal as fallback
00:57:53	stokes:	Does CFI give us time to investigate further?
00:57:59	Charles C:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just..."

i originally proposed eip-7907 as having no limit. but it was pointed out that there are limits in the p2p network that we don't want to break (like devp2p has a soft limit of 512kb per packet or somethin
00:58:05	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	CFIing 7918 makes sense
00:58:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "the only caution wit..."

so I think the important part would be to decide today to introduce any version of this, and then go with Andersâ€™ as the candidate version for now
00:58:51	Marius:	CFI 7918 and modify it how we need it
00:58:54	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Get 7918 more reviewed and have 7762 as a backup
00:59:07	stokes:	Replying to "CFI 7918 and modify ..."

Lets do it
00:59:14	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "CFI 7918 and modify ..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	happy to not CFI 7762, as long as we agree that it could still be swapped in for 7918 if there are issues
00:59:37	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "happy to not CFI 776..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:38	Marius:	Reacted to "happy to not CFI 7..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:39	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "happy to not CFI 776..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:56	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just ch..."

You can calculate the container size from the full header, but it wasnâ€™t designed as a quick lookup.  Storing in a side table or a revised account tuple (in verkle) I feel is the better path.
01:00:23	stokes:	CFI both today, and commit to only shipping one?
01:00:28	Trent:	Reacted to "CFI both today, and ..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:30	stokes:	(Pending further analysis of 7918)
01:00:42	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "CFI both today, and ..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "CFI both today, and ..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:53	Charles C:	Replying to "i'd like to discus..."

what is annoying about it? just the matrix of gas changes?
01:00:55	Potuz:	It wasn't said explicitly but I assume both of these don't cause any delays whatsoever, they are both trivial to implement right? it'd be nice to say it explicitly in the call
01:01:12	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "It wasn't said expli..."

Anders said it for 7918 but Iâ€™ll ask one last time ğŸ˜„
01:01:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the call doesnâ€™t seem like the right place for this research debate
01:01:23	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "why donâ€™t we just ch..."

But â€œcharge proportional to code sizeâ€ is in reference to calling a contract or deploying a contract?
01:01:29	Potuz:	Replying to "It wasn't said expli..."

Oh I missed it, should chat less :)
01:01:39	Francesco:	Reacted to "the call doesnâ€™t see..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:25	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "i'd like to discuss ..."

My preference is that this is part of the â€œgaspocalypseâ€ where we do all the gas schedule changes.  Weakly held.
01:02:30	Barnabas Busa:	whats the deadline for SFI for fusaka?
01:02:57	nixo:	Hadrien, your audio is terrible
01:02:59	Marius:	Whats the number?
01:03:03	Pooja Ranjan:	echo
01:03:04	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "Hadrien, your audio ..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:07	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7819
01:03:08	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

when we schedule testnet forks?
01:03:13	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

yeah
01:03:14	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

I think it should be far befroe
01:03:21	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

I would suggest we only SFI very carefully
01:03:25	Gary Schulte:	DEDICATION!  congrats
01:03:26	terence:	congrats!
01:03:26	Pooja Ranjan:	Congratulations!!
01:03:28	Tim Beiko:	congrats!!
01:03:29	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Congrats!
01:03:32	Kolby ML:	congrats!
01:03:32	Manu:	Congrats!
01:03:33	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

So it would be clear to everyone when something should move from CFI to SFI
01:03:36	James He:	Congrats!
01:03:37	Barnabas Busa:	Priorities ğŸ˜‚
01:03:37	terence:	thatâ€™s some dedication
01:03:43	nixo:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:45	Potuz:	Wow! that's really being committed to Ethereum!
01:03:47	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:48	James He:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:50	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

And it should be settled around halfway in the fusaka devnet series
01:03:50	Anna Thieser:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:52	pmmiranda:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:53	ethDreamer (Mark):	While making a proposal about â€œdelivery experienceâ€ lol
01:03:53	felipe:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:53	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:03:55	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:56	nixo:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:03:57	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:03:58	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:03:59	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Wow! that's really..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:04	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

Could we deadline SFI by end of this month?
01:04:06	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:07	Marius:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:07	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think the rule is that we owe him a celebratory EIP inclusion now
01:04:11	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:04:13	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

So we can have may for stable devnets already?
01:04:14	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "I think the rule is ..." with ğŸ‰
01:04:16	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think the rule is ..." with ğŸ‰
01:04:20	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "I think the rule is ..." with ğŸ‰
01:04:23	Bastin:	Reacted to "While making a propo..." with ğŸ˜†
01:04:27	Barnabas Busa:	Reacted to "While making a propo..." with ğŸ˜†
01:04:27	Marius:	Replying to "I think the rule i..."

Yep, just not in Fusaka :P
01:04:28	frangio:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:31	felipe:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:33	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Yep, just not in Fus..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:35	Guillaume:	Replying to "I think the rule is ..."

I also have an EIP to include and a baby if that helps
01:04:37	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "I think the rule is ..."

in pectra
01:04:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Yep, just not in Fus..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:40	George Kadianakis:	Reacted to Wow! that's really b... with "ğŸ’¯"
01:04:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

Doubt implementations would be done by then tbh
01:04:45	George Kadianakis:	Reacted to Priorities ğŸ˜‚ with "ğŸ˜…"
01:04:47	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:47	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Wow! that's really b..." with ğŸ’¯
01:04:47	felipe:	Reacted to "Yep, just not in Fus..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:51	pmmiranda:	Reacted to "Yep, just not in Fus..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:56	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

Iâ€™m not talking about implementations
01:04:56	Trent:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:04:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with â¤ï¸
01:05:02	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "Priorities ğŸ˜‚" with ğŸ˜…
01:05:02	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:04	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:07	Rodrigo | Lambda:	Reacted to "Yep, just not in F..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:07	Damian:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:09	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

Iâ€™m talking about having a strict list of things that we will or will not include
01:05:12	nixo:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:16	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

Impl progress will inform what makes sense to SFI tho
01:05:16	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:21	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Impl progress will i..." with â•
01:05:28	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:05:39	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

t having a strict list of things that we will or will not include
This is SFI
01:05:47	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

if its a small thing to implement then it shouldnâ€™t be hard to do by end of the month
01:05:49	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

And then we must be very careful moving things from CFI to SFI
01:05:57	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	I like it, but of course that may be because Iâ€™m a co-author.
01:05:58	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

if its a complicated thing to implement it shouldnâ€™t be in fusaka
01:06:20	stokes:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

Id rather everyone focus on peerdas/eof in stable devnet-0 before thinking about other EIPs
01:06:24	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "I like it, but of co..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:25	Guillaume:	small fork
01:06:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

More than complicated, its just bandwidth to work on another thing
01:06:30	Lin Oshitani | Nethermind:	I'd like to discuss EIP-7917, we didn't reach a conclusion in the last CL call: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7917
01:06:31	lightclient:	Reacted to "small fork" with ğŸ§‘â€ğŸ“
01:06:37	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "whats the deadline f..."

If teams have time, they should work on eof/peerdas first
01:06:40	rodiazet | Ipsilon:	Next one will be smallâ€¦.
01:06:44	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "small fork" with ğŸ§‘â€ğŸ“
01:06:45	Hadrien Croubois (OpenZeppelin):	Reacted to "Next one will be smaâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:47	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Yep, just not in Fus..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:51	Potuz:	@Anders ElowssonÂ Â  when you imlpement this I'd set it differently though, set a new function `F` instead of `TX_BASE_COST`, that can be just the identity `F = TX_BASE_COST` but so that we can trivially update this in the spec to any higher function if this limit is too small, same as with Max's PR, it can trivially be adjusted in the future if the limits become trivial.
01:06:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:58	Potuz:	Reacted to "small fork" with ğŸ§‘â€ğŸ“
01:07:03	Mario Vega:	Can be added to EOF later ?
01:07:12	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "Next one will be sma..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:07:14	Potuz:	Replying to "small fork"

yeah WTF, I really want 7732
01:07:17	Charles C:	Replying to "I think the rule i..."

am i understand that we can get EIPs included by having babies?
01:07:27	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:07:33	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "am i understand that..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:07:47	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "am i understand that..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:00	Potuz:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with â¤ï¸
01:08:04	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with â¤ï¸
01:08:07	Piotr | Ipsilon:	EIP-7819 sounds like it can be added to EOFv1 later (new opcode). No need to bump version
01:08:10	felipe:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:08:27	George Kadianakis:	Reacted to I also have an EIP t... with "ğŸ˜‚"
01:08:34	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "I also have an EIP t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:09:04	Potuz:	+1 for Tim's point, this is starting to look again like Pectra v2, and then I'll want 7732 since all these additions will delay the fork anyway
01:09:27	stokes:	Peerdas EOF
01:09:30	stokes:	Focus on these
01:09:36	Potuz:	Reacted to "Peerdas EOF" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:09:41	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Peerdas EOF" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:09:41	rodiazet | Ipsilon:	Reacted to "Focus on these" with â¤ï¸
01:09:44	rodiazet | Ipsilon:	Reacted to "Peerdas EOF" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:09:58	Trent:	Reacted to "Peerdas EOF" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:10:00	Trent:	Reacted to "Focus on these" with â¤ï¸
01:10:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	^ by then teams should have a handle of the other CFI-ed EIPs are manageable to implement quickly or not. If not, we really shouldnâ€™t SFI anything beyond peerdas + eof
01:10:49	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Gas limit Info EIP like the hardware specs
01:10:52	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "^ by then teams shou..." with â¤ï¸
01:10:53	ethDreamer (Mark):	Did we already CFI BPO forks on the execution side?
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7892
01:11:11	stokes:	Replying to "Did we already CFI B..."

It was CFIâ€™d last call
01:11:21	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "It was CFIâ€™d last ca..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:22	Barnabas Busa:	Reacted to "It was CFIâ€™d last ca..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:24	stokes:	Replying to "Did we already CFI B..."

You could raise here
01:11:33	stokes:	Replying to "Did we already CFI B..."

But I donâ€™t think there are issues w/ that one
01:11:38	Marius:	Blob per tx limit: yes
01:11:54	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Did we already CFI B..."

Oh it was! Sorry, didnâ€™t see the draft PR!
01:11:56	Justin Traglia:	Iâ€™d also like a limit
01:11:56	Marius:	yes
01:11:58	stokes:	Replying to "Blob per tx limit: y..."

Does it need to be in-protocol?
01:12:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	happy to have a limit, if so we should have it in fusaka though
01:12:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "happy to have a limi..."

can always be removed later
01:12:12	Francesco:	Reacted to "Blob per tx limit: y..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "happy to have a limi..."

could be part of peerdas eip
01:12:28	stokes:	Replying to "Did we already CFI B..."

https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9603
01:12:33	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Blob per tx limit: y..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:36	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Blob per tx limit: y..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:38	Anders Elowsson:	Is it possible to have a limit that adjusts with the target, I.e., max(8, target // 8) ?
01:12:38	Potuz:	Reacted to "Blob per tx limit: y..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:39	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	@Anders Elowsson Will your EIP need to changed if we add blobs per tx limit?
01:12:48	Potuz:	yeah this was just an omission in PeerDAS
01:12:55	Carl Beekhuizen:	in case we want to change the limit later, i think itâ€™s cleaner to have a limit in its own EIP
01:13:01	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "@Anders Elowsson Wil..."

Yes, I mention this in a twitter thread today
01:13:04	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "I think the rule is ..."

Only if ACD gets to name it
01:13:18	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "in case we want to c..."

Agreed
01:13:25	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "am i understand that..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:13:29	Potuz:	Replying to "in case we want to c..."

Why so? we can simply change a parameter in the spec?
01:13:41	Charles C:	Reacted to "Only if ACD gets t..." with ğŸ”¥
01:13:44	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "in case we want to c..."

â€œChange a parameter in the specâ€ should require an EIP IMO
01:13:49	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	This is the equivalent of what we just CFI'd with the tx gas limit max
01:13:49	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "in case we want to c..."

The issuance is â€œa parameter in the spec"
01:13:51	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "in case we want to c..."

ğŸ˜„
01:13:58	Francesco:	I think itâ€™s more critical to have it be a mempool restriction, but would also favour a general restriction to simplify packing
01:14:00	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "@Anders Elowsson Wil..."

https://x.com/weboftrees/status/1910313154392817971
01:14:10	Marius:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s more..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:20	Potuz:	Replying to "in case we want to c..."

yeah changing in a subsequent fork will need an EIP, but not in this one cause can be (and should have been) part of PeerDAS
01:14:27	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "yeah changing in a s..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:45	Marius:	Reacted to "yeah changing in a..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:59	Potuz:	That's not a blob only update then
01:15:35	stokes:	Are we talking about the (target, max) limits or a per-txn blob limit?
01:16:14	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Replying to "Are we talking about..."

This is per transaction
01:16:30	FLCL:	you can increase it and decrease, omit when it fully scalable
01:17:08	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "in case we want to câ€¦"
if we do change the limit, we can have a nice clean EIP that says this supersedes (and deprecates) this other one. i also think itâ€™s easier to reason about as it doesnâ€™t look like we have PeerDAS except for this one constant which is now no longer true
01:17:21	Marius:	Replying to "i'd like to discus..."

Charles said: i would disagree since it doesn't just change the relative pricing of the opcode, it fundamentally changes how memory is used (he got kicked off)
01:17:21	stokes:	Replying to "Did we already CFI B..."

Left as draft bc we may add another CL EIP to CFI on next ACDC
01:17:33	Charles C:	Reacted to "Charles said: i wo..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:16	lightclient:	didnâ€™t v post this idea before?
01:19:29	Potuz:	It would be nice to have a presentation *before* we get to the Glamsterdam discussions
01:19:31	lightclient:	so not like itâ€™s completely new
01:19:56	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s more crâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:20:47	Charles C:	Reacted to "didnâ€™t v post thi..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:08	Charles C:	Replying to "didnâ€™t v post thi..."

there's been a couple EIPs in the same vein
01:21:15	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "It would be nice to ..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	also to be clear, we should not have any strong pre-commitments about what should be in Glamsterdam. I know we have many people with strong opinions about what should be in there (me included), but itâ€™s important that the understanding is that that is tbd
01:21:26	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "also to be clear, we..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:28	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Reacted to "also to be clear, we..." with ğŸ‘
01:22:08	Marius:	Etan not here?
01:22:09	Potuz:	There isn't any strong precommitment to anything here, ask @GuillaumeÂ  otherwise
01:22:21	Potuz:	Danno could write a thesis about this
01:22:27	Marius:	Replying to "Etan not here?"

Haven't heard ssz mentioned yet
01:22:42	Potuz:	Reacted to "Haven't heard ssz me..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:22:53	Guillaume:	yeah, promises are to be forgotten the next day
01:22:55	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "also to be clear, weâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:23:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "There isn't any stro..."

well, peerDAS and EOF were kind of decided for Fusaka before the main Fusaka inclusion discussion
01:23:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "There isn't any stro..."

(ofc we then decided to revisit that EOF decision)
01:23:49	Marius:	I thought we did both modexp eips?
01:23:57	Potuz:	Replying to "There isn't any stro..."

They were decided for Pectra
01:24:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "There isn't any stro..."

well yes, but then grandfathered into Fusaka when we did that split
01:24:18	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7823
01:24:31	stokes:	Replying to "Etan not here?"

There wasnâ€™t much interest from last weekâ€™s ACDC
01:24:36	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Agreed, we are in support of this
01:24:39	stokes:	Replying to "Etan not here?"

Have next week to finalize CFI list
01:24:47	Marius:	Ã¼In support as well
01:25:10	Marius:	Damn it can be so efficient! Well done Tim
01:25:19	nixo:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:22	Barnabas Busa:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:24	terence:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:27	Tim Beiko:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/reconfiguring-allcoredevs/23370
01:25:30	Trent:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:35	Trent:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with â¤ï¸
01:25:37	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:39	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with â¤ï¸
01:25:41	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:49	Monkey:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ..." with â¤ï¸
01:25:49	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with â¤ï¸
01:25:50	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:51	Barnabas Busa:	glamsterdam planning wen?
01:25:57	rodiazet | Ipsilon:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:25:57	Monkey:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:03	nixo:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with â¤ï¸
01:26:25	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:28	Marius:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:29	Marius:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ..." with â¤ï¸
01:26:40	Guillaume:	Replying to "glamsterdam planning..."

when you have shipped Pectra ğŸ˜
01:26:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:00	felipe:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:11	felipe:	Reacted to "Damn it can be so ef..." with â¤ï¸
01:27:33	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "glamsterdam planning..."

When we understand the path to 100M gas, then we will know our available capacity.
01:28:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Any big contentious decisions would still be brought to ACDC/ACDE since more people attend them atm
01:28:08	Potuz:	We should CFI less EIPs then
01:28:27	Potuz:	It'll be impossible to avoid Fusaka's calls here
01:28:41	Kolby ML:	Reacted to "Haven't heard ssz me..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:28:48	stokes:	We can streamline better on the margin though
01:29:04	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "@Anders ElowssonÂ Â  w..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:22	Kolby ML:	Aren't Etan's SSZ EIP's mostly on the EL side?
01:29:23	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "glamsterdam planning..."

My quick analysis is there will be some glamsterdam changes needed for gigagas, so that will drive some of glamsterdam.
01:30:13	Potuz:	oh why not?
01:30:19	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "oh why not?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:30:35	Marius:	(if we find that an EIP is broken on the testing call, we will still discuss it in ACDE/ACDC)
01:30:37	Kolby ML:	Replying to "Etan not here?"

So they are more applicable to ACDE
01:30:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Imagine stuff like PRs that make a decision about a CFI/SFI-ed topic, its mostly the type of PRs people want to raise before merging
01:30:47	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "(if we find that an ..."

Majorly broken yes ğŸ˜„
01:31:36	Potuz:	I like the idea, and I think it'll streamline better the forks
01:31:45	stokes:	Replying to "Etan not here?"

AFAIK it is just adding minimal stable container functionality
01:31:48	Ben Adams:	Are also breakouts for features
01:31:56	stokes:	Replying to "Etan not here?"

Thereâ€™s no push for the ssz-ification of the EL AFAIK
01:32:07	Potuz:	I don't expect 80 people in that call, it'll be implementers mostly
01:32:20	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	My take: we need to pipeline ACD to ship faster, thatâ€™s what this plan starts doing.  ACDT is what is shipping, ACD{E|C} is planing what may be shipping.
01:32:25	Marius:	Replying to "Are also breakouts..."

Breakouts will continue until morale improves
01:32:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Yes, like 30-50 people would need to attend ACDT, its probably noise for the rest
01:32:36	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Yes, like 30-50 peop..."

But how many would want ğŸ˜„ ?
01:32:41	stokes:	Reacted to "I like the idea, and..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:49	stokes:	Reacted to "My take: we need to ..." with ğŸ‘
01:32:56	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Breakouts will conti..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:32:59	Potuz:	Reacted to "My take: we need to ..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:10	felipe:	Reacted to "My take: we need to ..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:19	Trent:	I can go right at the end
01:33:25	Åukasz Rozmej:	We need to hire someone to attend all the calls :P
01:33:33	ethDreamer (Mark):	<3
01:33:38	ethDreamer (Mark):	Love that
01:33:40	lightclient:	too many calls
01:33:41	Potuz:	Reacted to "We need to hire some..." with ğŸ¤£
01:33:49	Charles C:	Reacted to "We need to hire so..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:52	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "We need to hire some..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:53	Åukasz Rozmej:	CallOverflowException ;)
01:33:56	stokes:	Replying to "too many calls"

Have you heard about agents? ;)
01:33:57	Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon:	Replying to "We need to hire some..."

Middle managers are created, not born.
01:34:02	stokes:	Reacted to "CallOverflowExceptio..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:34:08	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Have you heard about..." with ğŸ˜…
01:34:12	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Have you heard about..." with ğŸ˜…
01:34:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "too many calls"

Skip acd, they have more time to bikeshed
01:34:13	Barnabas Busa:	Reacted to "We need to hire some..." with ğŸ¤£
01:34:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "too many calls"

isnâ€™t it the other way around? more specialized, not everyone having to attend everyhting
01:34:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "too many calls"

Join the trenches call
01:34:55	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "too many calls"

AI drived core dev calls trained on team posiotions?
01:35:12	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "too many calls"

ACD(T) = ACD Trenches?
01:35:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "too many calls"

Yessir, non-canonical name ğŸ˜›
01:35:25	Ivan Metrikin:	Great initiative, Tim
01:35:40	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "ACD(T) = ACD Trenche..." with ğŸ–ï¸
01:36:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	â€œthe deadline is April 28â€ - I still have a tab open for filling out the merge retrospective...
01:36:24	Caleb:	Reacted to CallOverflowExceptio... with "ğŸ˜‚"
01:36:26	nixo:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:36:28	Barnabas Busa:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:36:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ACD(T) = ACD Trenche..." with ğŸ–ï¸
01:36:33	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:36:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:36:36	nixo:	Replying to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..."

will make sure to bug Ansgar specifically
01:36:46	Barnabas Busa:	Replying to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..."

good thing he didnâ€™t mention which year april 28
01:36:51	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:36:51	stokes:	Reacted to "good thing he didnâ€™t..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:36:54	nixo:	Reacted to "good thing he didnâ€™t..." with ğŸ¤ª
01:36:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..."

ah wait no thatâ€™s the â€œDencun Diaryâ€
01:36:59	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:37:00	Trent:	Reacted to "â€œthe deadline is Apr..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:38:07	Caleb:	Reacted to ACD(T) = ACD Trenche... with "ğŸ–ï¸"
