WEBVTT

1
00:05:11.040 --> 00:05:13.520
Justin Florentine (Besu): Good morning. Ethereum

2
00:05:24.800 --> 00:05:26.359
Matthew Keil: Ethereum says, Hello.

3
00:05:26.720 --> 00:05:28.390
William Morriss: It's nighttime here.

4
00:07:05.190 --> 00:07:06.276
Tim Beiko: Good morning!

5
00:07:11.050 --> 00:07:12.170
Pooja Ranjan: Good morning!

6
00:07:14.240 --> 00:07:15.020
Fredrik: Hello!

7
00:07:20.056 --> 00:07:24.940
Tim Beiko: We'll wait one more minute and then move over. Spot cover.

8
00:07:31.130 --> 00:07:33.280
Tim Beiko: Josh, are we good on the live stream?

9
00:07:34.210 --> 00:07:35.620
Josh Davis: Yeah, whenever you're ready

10
00:07:38.460 --> 00:07:39.320
Tim Beiko: Okay, yeah.

11
00:07:50.350 --> 00:07:52.270
Tim Beiko: Adrian, we'll try

12
00:07:52.560 --> 00:08:01.409
Tim Beiko: to get to it. But let's see if we can sort out the high level discussion around the Eo 1st and then next call. We can also go into a bunch of small

13
00:08:04.060 --> 00:08:06.079
Tim Beiko: sweet. Yeah. Joshua, move us over

14
00:08:08.290 --> 00:08:09.270
Josh Davis: You were live.

15
00:08:11.620 --> 00:08:24.963
Tim Beiko: Okay, welcome everyone to Acde number 208. We have a lot on the agenda today. We'll talk about Petra, how the fork, went on Hoodie.

16
00:08:25.840 --> 00:08:35.950
Tim Beiko: Some process upgrades with regards to how we deploy hard forks, and then we'll see if we're comfortable talking about main net timing.

17
00:08:36.210 --> 00:08:40.179
Tim Beiko: Then what I expect will take most of the call Fusaka.

18
00:08:40.450 --> 00:08:44.100
Tim Beiko: So we have some updates on pure Das.

19
00:08:44.400 --> 00:09:01.889
Tim Beiko: and then lots to discuss about Eof. Hopefully, we could come to a final resolution about eof shape and size and inclusion today. And then there was also some other minor Fussaka eips that client teams brought up.

20
00:09:02.170 --> 00:09:09.810
Tim Beiko: and if we have time there are a few portal network and history expiry topics to also cover at the end of the call.

21
00:09:11.270 --> 00:09:19.040
Tim Beiko: but to get us started. Perry, do you want to give an update on how the Hoodie Fork activation went

22
00:09:20.530 --> 00:09:25.280
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah. So the Hoodie Petra fork happened yesterday, almost

23
00:09:25.955 --> 00:09:36.059
Parithosh Jayanthi: roughly at this time, and immediately after there was a relatively stable participation rate. We finalized without any unexpected problems.

24
00:09:36.516 --> 00:09:56.140
Parithosh Jayanthi: There were 2 issues that were noted relatively minor and non-critical ones. One seems to be related to Kaplan, Aragon validators, and the second one was higher than expected. Resource use on lighthouse. During the transition which has since been fine.

25
00:09:56.140 --> 00:10:17.989
Parithosh Jayanthi: The lighthouse team also found another issue for which they had a bug fix released last night in the form of the Beta 5 release we haven't yet finished all of our validator state testing purely because the queue is relatively large, as it's an open, valid data set. So that might still take a few more days for us to have

26
00:10:18.000 --> 00:10:22.239
Parithosh Jayanthi: all the results on consolidations, manually trigger withdrawals and so on.

27
00:10:22.650 --> 00:10:26.359
Parithosh Jayanthi: But so far everything looks to be going as expected.

28
00:10:27.110 --> 00:10:32.239
Parithosh Jayanthi: yeah, I think that's most of what we have to report. At this moment more coming up

29
00:10:33.890 --> 00:10:34.860
Tim Beiko: Thank you.

30
00:10:36.330 --> 00:10:54.380
Tim Beiko: And then the other big part of Petra testing on Hoodie was application and infrastructure. Lido posted an Update in the chat. Seems like the fork has gone smoothly on their end. I don't know if there's anyone from the team. Yeah, I see Yvonne is here. Do you want to get a quick update from Lido side?

31
00:10:54.920 --> 00:11:14.419
Ivan Metrikin: Yeah, absolutely. So we have successfully passed the hard work with 14 node operators, and all 4 staking modules worked well in simple DVD, we had both Mobile and Ssv clusters running, and also the community staking module as well.

32
00:11:15.073 --> 00:11:25.399
Ivan Metrikin: All our oracles worked well, we got all the reports this morning. We also got the report for the community staking module. It went smoothly.

33
00:11:25.520 --> 00:11:38.609
Ivan Metrikin: and we have confirmed that all the compatibility upgrades that we included in our side of the Petra artwork are also functioning well and and correctly.

34
00:11:39.441 --> 00:12:04.770
Ivan Metrikin: The only note here is that we haven't tested the actual new functionality in Petra. Like triggerable exits, consolidations, and features related to Max, effective balance that will come later. But so far the upgrade is looking good, and besides those small issues with Aragon and lighthouse that affected some of the node operators, we we are pretty happy with the upgrade and big Big shout out to all the

35
00:12:04.890 --> 00:12:08.459
Ivan Metrikin: client teams, I think you've done a fantastic job here

36
00:12:11.250 --> 00:12:12.000
Tim Beiko: Thank you.

37
00:12:12.670 --> 00:12:35.070
Tim Beiko: And then I also saw in the agenda comments either 5 said they plan on starting to test, but it's dependent on Eigenlayer and I I believe Eigenlayer was dependent on gnosis safe deploying their contracts on Hoodie. I don't know if a match from again this on the call today.

38
00:12:38.690 --> 00:12:51.836
Tim Beiko: Okay, maybe not. Okay. And then Perry says, I know this life is live on Hoodie now. So nice. That's that's good news. It seems like, yeah, it was blocked. It was kind of this chain of blocking where?

39
00:12:52.450 --> 00:12:59.699
Tim Beiko: yeah, a lot of contracts depend on on safe. And then, Eigenlayer also has a lot of like restaking protocols on top of it.

40
00:13:00.380 --> 00:13:05.494
Tim Beiko: so generally seems like things are going well on the application layer layer testing

41
00:13:06.430 --> 00:13:33.049
Tim Beiko: like we discussed last time. We probably want to wait at least a few more weeks to give people plenty of time to test, and I think related to this. In general figuring out how we want to approach maintenance deployment. This is quite important. And Frederick, from the Ef security team has put together a doc to to discuss this. Yeah, Frederick, do you wanna share your your doc?

42
00:13:33.380 --> 00:13:40.677
Fredrik: Yeah, yeah, sure. I can share my screen quickly.

43
00:13:42.160 --> 00:13:47.098
Fredrik: I am not going to go through all of this, considering that.

44
00:13:47.770 --> 00:13:49.399
Fredrik: we don't have that much time.

45
00:13:50.620 --> 00:13:54.848
Fredrik: I can also, maybe you can share the the link if you have it.

46
00:13:55.330 --> 00:13:56.970
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I put it in the chat already

47
00:13:56.970 --> 00:14:08.170
Fredrik: Okay? Good, yeah. So so basically, what this document is is a an attempt to try and formalize the upgrade process that takes place during hard works.

48
00:14:09.113 --> 00:14:15.170
Fredrik: Most of this is, are things that is already being done today, and it's

49
00:14:15.370 --> 00:14:23.220
Fredrik: merely a way of formalizing it and ensuring that, you know we do the same each time, and we don't miss a particular step.

50
00:14:23.670 --> 00:14:35.557
Fredrik: The the main difference, I would say, is something that's part of the end here.

51
00:14:36.590 --> 00:14:39.270
Fredrik: which is some incident response plan.

52
00:14:39.450 --> 00:14:44.270
Fredrik: Where, ahead of the hard work, we

53
00:14:44.600 --> 00:14:50.279
Fredrik: assign roles to some people. And these people then have

54
00:14:50.500 --> 00:15:06.059
Fredrik: various responsibilities to ensure that things are getting done. For example, that verification of the hard work is taking place. It can be that communication is going out. If there's an incident

55
00:15:06.670 --> 00:15:08.360
Fredrik: that we have

56
00:15:08.500 --> 00:15:18.550
Fredrik: the right people working to solve that incident as quickly as possible, and it also adds a few other things like, you know.

57
00:15:18.940 --> 00:15:25.471
Fredrik: instead of just waiting for finalization and calling that a success there should be some

58
00:15:26.360 --> 00:15:31.300
Fredrik: verification of the eips, for example, to ensure that

59
00:15:31.860 --> 00:15:41.610
Fredrik: they were. They're actually working on the test nuts and on main nuts before success is is called.

60
00:15:43.280 --> 00:15:44.569
Fredrik: There is.

61
00:15:45.020 --> 00:15:52.309
Fredrik: There are some templates that can be used for the upgrades. Basically.

62
00:15:53.960 --> 00:15:59.397
Fredrik: the idea would be that, you know, for the let's say we're upgrading Poleski again.

63
00:16:00.670 --> 00:16:06.303
Fredrik: then we would fill this out. So we have a record of that. We would have some

64
00:16:06.760 --> 00:16:12.300
Fredrik: information about where people can find updates and where they can communicate.

65
00:16:12.960 --> 00:16:24.920
Fredrik: The status updates, for example, might just be a hack. Md. Page, where, you know, updates are posted, or maybe at some point some kind of fancy fancy plates. We also have some

66
00:16:25.870 --> 00:16:35.170
Fredrik: verification what should be verified after the upgrade has gone through, and then perhaps the most

67
00:16:35.810 --> 00:16:37.719
Fredrik: like one of the.

68
00:16:38.180 --> 00:16:49.660
Fredrik: I guess contentious or controversial points to discuss would be the timelines that are listed in this document.

69
00:16:52.950 --> 00:16:59.729
Fredrik: basically. What it says right now is that there should at least be 14 days apart between each test. Net

70
00:17:00.040 --> 00:17:05.253
Fredrik: test. Nuts should not be scheduled at the same time.

71
00:17:06.300 --> 00:17:12.519
Fredrik: but it says, should, so they can. There is some reasoning why that should not be the case.

72
00:17:13.190 --> 00:17:19.850
Fredrik: and it also states that there is this kind of

73
00:17:20.660 --> 00:17:32.020
Fredrik: wait, or I guess, review period between clients being having their releases out and the 1st testnet being upgraded.

74
00:17:32.390 --> 00:17:38.170
Fredrik: which in this document is 30 days. And the reasoning here is that

75
00:17:39.040 --> 00:17:41.829
Fredrik: during these 30 days we can run

76
00:17:41.990 --> 00:17:55.009
Fredrik: bug bounty competitions, we can have the bug bounty program active. We can have the security, the Political security team review the the clients as they are

77
00:17:55.740 --> 00:17:56.330
Fredrik: ready.

78
00:17:57.906 --> 00:18:09.003
Fredrik: As well as external auditors. If we need to. But this, of course, adds a bit of extra time between clients being ready.

79
00:18:10.080 --> 00:18:14.350
Fredrik: the upgrades being live on Mainnet, so

80
00:18:14.920 --> 00:18:16.729
Fredrik: I don't know if that's something we should

81
00:18:17.270 --> 00:18:21.970
Fredrik: discuss in this call team, or if the people should leave

82
00:18:22.430 --> 00:18:25.540
Fredrik: comments on the Pr. Perhaps. But

83
00:18:26.360 --> 00:18:41.520
Tim Beiko: Yeah. So I think for sure, the specifics around like test net deployments and whatnot will require bike chitting. And we can save ourselves this from the call. People should comment about this on the Pr. Or you know, if we merge this, and people want to change it, they can open another. Pr.

84
00:18:41.520 --> 00:19:01.719
Tim Beiko: I think the most important part with regards to Petra is one. The idea of like assigning people from different teams to be on call when the upgrade happens. And having that set in advance, so that we kind of know who to ping, and that the people who will be pinged, or maybe Pinged know to be on alert.

85
00:19:02.510 --> 00:19:24.448
Tim Beiko: and I think there the idea would be that like, you know, team set somebody, if for whatever reason that person cannot make it, there's like a backup. Or if you know, we thought this was, gonna take 2Â h and it ends up taking 3 days. The team can obviously rotate who is on, but to always have kind of a source of truth. Of okay, this is the person who's owning things, for you know Prism, or Nimbus, or Aragon, or whatever

86
00:19:24.920 --> 00:19:40.545
Tim Beiko: and having said that in advance, and I I also think the other big part is, yeah, before we kind of close things off and say, that picture is live having a set of things we want to actually test for the upgrade and see happen beyond just finality feels like it would be important.

87
00:19:41.140 --> 00:19:54.579
Tim Beiko: so does anyone disagree with like those 2 parts that a we should schedule. You know, specific people from different teams. And then B, that we should try to identify like, what are the things we want to see before we complete the upgrade

88
00:20:01.500 --> 00:20:08.070
Fredrik: And also, maybe, if there are some voices that feel very strongly that we should not have this type of process

89
00:20:08.070 --> 00:20:09.370
Tim Beiko: Process at all. Yeah.

90
00:20:09.370 --> 00:20:17.059
Fredrik: Yeah, but I I have talked with the all the client teams, and they have provided a lot of super valuable information. So

91
00:20:20.020 --> 00:20:24.750
Fredrik: Yeah, I hope there won't be any big major. Yeah, sure.

92
00:20:25.480 --> 00:20:26.210
Tim Beiko: Nico

93
00:20:27.463 --> 00:20:33.819
Nicolas Consigny: Yeah, just a question, should this be a meta IP, or should this remain like a process

94
00:20:33.820 --> 00:20:42.094
Tim Beiko: No, I would put it in the Pm. Repo, because we want to keep changing it, for you know, forever. And Meta Ips are hard to do that way.

95
00:20:42.920 --> 00:20:43.690
Tim Beiko: yeah.

96
00:20:44.680 --> 00:20:45.480
Nicolas Consigny: Okay, makes sense.

97
00:20:45.480 --> 00:20:51.770
Tim Beiko: Yeah. And then Lukash has a comment saying like, Don't you already do this? This is just writing this down. And yes, and I think

98
00:20:52.200 --> 00:21:04.502
Tim Beiko: every like, you know, to take Lucas as an example. If he is the person on call for never mind, it's helpful for other people to know that he is the person on call for another mind. Even if that was already the case.

99
00:21:05.580 --> 00:21:18.771
Tim Beiko: yeah, because clearly this kind of happened with the issue where it wasn't clear like who should take the lead and and like who should pay? Who. So I think, after the extent we can make this clearer.

100
00:21:19.110 --> 00:21:37.710
Tim Beiko: it's valuable. So okay, it seems like there's a lot of support for it. We should probably merge this in the next couple of days. Again, we can debate the specifics around like the test that delays and whatnot, either on this Pr or in a follow up pr, but I think, using the minimal version of it and trying this for Petron may not

101
00:21:37.860 --> 00:21:39.690
Tim Beiko: seems reasonable.

102
00:21:40.510 --> 00:21:51.876
Tim Beiko: The other process change with regards to deploying hard forks was this idea of eth config as a Json, Ipc Api. So

103
00:21:52.510 --> 00:21:54.429
Tim Beiko: To give some context on this

104
00:21:54.790 --> 00:22:21.439
Tim Beiko: part of the reason why we had these bugs on Sepulia and Holeski is that they have different configurations than Mainnet does with regards to the deposit contract. And so the idea here is that we could have a Json Rpc. Endpoints that nodes can use to to check that. They actually have the same parameterization for the upgrade. Dana was the author on this, Dana, do you want to give quick context

105
00:22:22.530 --> 00:22:26.700
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Sure. So I've drafted up any IP for the 79

106
00:22:26.820 --> 00:22:36.570
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: 1 0. It's basically a Rpc that returns from the current operation. What the configuration is, and I wanna get get this in team members in

107
00:22:37.780 --> 00:22:44.420
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: find teams minds right now. I don't expect moving on this for a few months. But just to make sure that we have everything that we need to work with.

108
00:22:44.741 --> 00:23:05.729
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: A couple of high level design things is I'm not. I don't just want people to report the text of their configuration file, because that may not be what got reflected into their system. So this proof of concept I built from base soup, pulls it entirely from the Runtime configuration, and I try to put in this configuration object things that we know have caused deviations or or consensus failures

109
00:23:05.730 --> 00:23:22.289
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: from the configuration. Broken code can't report on that. But if we forgot to set the system contract, if we have the wrong set of precompiled which has broken some tests and activations contract id getting wrong. No one's gotten the blob schedule wrong yet, but that's the sort of thing that would break if that's a configuration item, or if they activate at the same time.

110
00:23:22.440 --> 00:23:42.710
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: So this would just be a Json. Rpc, that you would say, give me your east config, and then we return what your current configuration is, and this is off of a old booty from Bay su. Pre. 4. And this is what we're currently running and a little quick comparison hash. This is what we plan on running next.

111
00:23:42.740 --> 00:24:04.440
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: if next is set. And if next is not set next to next hash or null. So this gives us an idea before the fork. If we're configured properly, and teams can look at this Ipi and compare things. Now, if everyone's got everything exactly the same through canonicalization rules, the hash is going to be identical so that can be a quick check, and if that's different, then they can go to what made up that hash and do a diff and see where things differ.

112
00:24:04.540 --> 00:24:08.459
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: So that's basically the high level overview of how this is meant to work.

113
00:24:08.817 --> 00:24:18.720
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: So what I would like from teams is to go to the discussion link and give me feedback what they think should be added, what they think should be removed. If they think the design should be different.

114
00:24:19.100 --> 00:24:25.990
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Feedback is what I'm looking for right now. I don't think it's ready to commit to final review. I think we need other client teams to get feedback

115
00:24:29.670 --> 00:24:34.419
Tim Beiko: Okay, yeah, before we debate press versus Jason, rpc, I guess, yeah.

116
00:24:34.850 --> 00:24:44.080
Tim Beiko: does anyone feel like we should push to have a version of this for Petra, so like teams implementing it in the next week or so? Or are we fine delaying this for Glamsterdam?

117
00:24:51.490 --> 00:24:55.449
Felix: I feel like it's not something that requires like any kind of fork.

118
00:24:57.210 --> 00:24:58.240
Felix: Scheduling

119
00:24:59.380 --> 00:25:13.339
Tim Beiko: Right? Yeah, yeah. Sorry. I meant for second. Sorry about that. But more like, you know, given we had config issues with Petra on testnets? Will we feel more confident if we have this before Petra on Mainnet? Or are we fine

120
00:25:14.050 --> 00:25:18.220
Tim Beiko: quadruple, checking the configs? Without this? For

121
00:25:19.490 --> 00:25:34.329
Felix: So my my sorry to just speak. But I guess anyone else can also, from my point of view, this thing is interesting, but at the same time I do feel like some more work is needed on this to really bring it to the.

122
00:25:34.970 --> 00:25:48.999
Felix: to the finish, and especially since, like the config model that it assumes is not something that actually, for example, in get, it doesn't exist like this. We don't actually have like a current. And next configuration. We just have, like a list of

123
00:25:49.130 --> 00:26:03.130
Felix: blocks and timestamps when the fork is supposed to activate. So we actually have to write some new code to generate this response. And then I guess, yeah, well, I mean, that code will be really well tested. But is that going to mean that everything is correct. I don't know like it's

124
00:26:04.000 --> 00:26:15.239
Felix: it's just something where, like I, personally, would have been much happier just seeing kind of an endpoint that reports the current sort of like list of

125
00:26:15.810 --> 00:26:25.540
Felix: 4 block numbers and timestamps, because I feel that is something that is kind of missing. And I mean, yeah, the the parameters as well like they they are. They are important, and the ones that we got wrong.

126
00:26:25.720 --> 00:26:32.190
Felix: The on the testnet obviously should be included. But no, I mean

127
00:26:32.190 --> 00:26:44.309
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: This is the feedback I'm looking for in the discussion, but we didn't fail on getting the fork number wrong we got. We failed on getting the config wrong. That's why I focused on more than that, we have the fork number in the

128
00:26:44.743 --> 00:26:49.439
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: dev. P. 2 p. Stuff with the fork. Id. So we have that already in process

129
00:26:49.610 --> 00:26:51.220
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: and working well. I think

130
00:26:52.830 --> 00:27:03.899
Felix: Yeah, well, okay, so we will have more discussions about this. I do think it's a cool proposal. So yeah, I mean, I just wanted to say that, like for us. Specifically, it doesn't seem like the most

131
00:27:04.120 --> 00:27:08.449
Felix: useful thing, but we would still implement it. Of course, like it's no big deal

132
00:27:09.110 --> 00:27:14.589
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: It's early enough that I'm very open to counter proposals. Discussion topic could be the best place for that

133
00:27:16.900 --> 00:27:18.700
Tim Beiko: Yeah. And from the chat that seems like there's

134
00:27:18.910 --> 00:27:26.890
Tim Beiko: moderate support at least to have it over. Fusaka. But yeah, not something we'll need for protection. So we can continue discussing it. And then

135
00:27:27.090 --> 00:27:32.709
Tim Beiko: obviously manually review the configs on the clients for for Petra.

136
00:27:33.190 --> 00:27:36.990
Tim Beiko: And yeah, anything else on this topic.

137
00:27:43.930 --> 00:27:51.226
Tim Beiko: Okay. Thanks, Daniel. Next up main net timing. So

138
00:27:52.650 --> 00:28:09.133
Tim Beiko: Hoodie has forked. It's gone relatively. Well, it seems like testing is underway, for you know, staking services and and other applications. Do we want to set a fork date today? Do we want to wait another week or 2 to do this.

139
00:28:09.500 --> 00:28:32.359
Tim Beiko: And then Andrew has proposed a set of dates given, we said, like we wanted at least 30 days before, between the who deactivation and and the main net fork the 1st proposed date is April 30.th and then he's proposed some pretty much on a rolling basis after that, that that we could use.

140
00:28:33.071 --> 00:28:40.100
Tim Beiko: Yeah, do people have a strong preference around trying to set it today or waiting another week or 2.

141
00:28:51.620 --> 00:28:59.600
Tim Beiko: okay, we have a okay. We have some preference towards setting a date the 1st is April 30.th

142
00:29:00.324 --> 00:29:05.719
Tim Beiko: Which I think is also the slot Barnabas. I put out there.

143
00:29:10.100 --> 00:29:39.939
Tim Beiko: Does anyone think April 30th would be too soon? And the expectation there is, I think, if we want to have the fork on April 30.th It would be nice to have the blog post out with all the releases, at least like a a good 2 weeks before that. So April 30th is is a Wednesday. So this means that client releases should be out somewhere between like April 10 and April 14.

144
00:29:40.870 --> 00:29:44.460
Tim Beiko: Does that give people sufficient time to put out a magnet? Release

145
00:29:49.340 --> 00:30:08.020
Ivan Metrikin: Yeah, I'll just jump in quickly from lighter side. We are. Gonna be ready. We think it's pretty reasonable. We're finishing all the tests, and I think this date will work. However, I just want to flag that I've noticed in the discussion. Thread on on Github. Pm.

146
00:30:08.050 --> 00:30:28.909
Ivan Metrikin: that etherfi are not yet started, and they depend on Eigenlayer that was also depending on on save and some other things, and they commented that they might need time until the end of May. I'm not sure if someone from Etherfi is on the call. I just wanted to highlight that it might be a a challenge

147
00:30:30.490 --> 00:30:33.740
Tim Beiko: Great thanks is, is anyone from either on the call?

148
00:30:41.550 --> 00:30:44.209
Tim Beiko: Okay, there isn't. So.

149
00:30:44.590 --> 00:30:50.971
Tim Beiko: I guess if we just stick to client teams, is there any client team for whom?

150
00:30:54.870 --> 00:31:00.896
Tim Beiko: for whom? Like having your release out mid April would be problematic.

151
00:31:01.940 --> 00:31:18.579
Tim Beiko: if not, what I think we could maybe do is set a tentative date today. Verify with verify with etherfi and other applications over the next week, and then confirm this on the Cl call. But

152
00:31:19.680 --> 00:31:30.530
Tim Beiko: yeah, is there any team that today feels like getting your release out by April April like 14

153
00:31:30.640 --> 00:31:35.790
Tim Beiko: would be problematic for them, and that they would want to push back even beyond that.

154
00:31:50.960 --> 00:31:52.290
Tim Beiko: Okay, then, if

155
00:31:52.400 --> 00:32:08.700
Tim Beiko: if people feel generally okay with that, what I would do is I'll open a Pr on the Pm. Repo with this with this slot that which is slot 1, 1, 5, 9, 9, 8, 7, 2 I'll

156
00:32:08.810 --> 00:32:23.020
Tim Beiko: and then client team should also assign like we just said, assign different people to to like, actually watch the fork. So my hope is that by next awkward devs next Thursday we we have this filled out. We've heard from

157
00:32:23.060 --> 00:32:43.790
Tim Beiko: any applications that have, like a major issue with that date. And we can make a final call. But I think we can at least get the ball rolling on, tentatively, scheduling a date figuring out who from each team is gonna be it's it's gonna be like assigned to to monitor the fork. And then, yeah, follow up with applications

158
00:32:45.170 --> 00:32:47.670
Tim Beiko: that seem reasonable. Any objections?

159
00:32:53.780 --> 00:32:55.679
Tim Beiko: Okay, let's do that.

160
00:32:57.740 --> 00:32:58.530
Tim Beiko: Great.

161
00:32:59.112 --> 00:33:04.599
Tim Beiko: So yeah. So again, that would be on April 30.th Epoch 3, 6, 2, 4, 9, 6.

162
00:33:07.630 --> 00:33:24.182
Tim Beiko: okay, moving on to Fusaka. So our deadline for people to propose eips was this week. There's there's been many, many proposed eips. There were 2 that I couldn't merge for some random bot reasons, so I posted them in the agenda

163
00:33:24.940 --> 00:33:32.000
Tim Beiko: and then our deadline for teams to share their perspectives about the fork was next week. So

164
00:33:32.140 --> 00:33:50.279
Tim Beiko: hopefully, if we sort out eof right after this, teams can take some time in the next week or so to share their preferences, and then we can finalize the scope for the fork by April 10.th So by all court of 2 weeks from now. Which is what we originally were aiming for.

165
00:33:50.933 --> 00:33:55.790
Tim Beiko: So please. Yeah, please review the list of pfi vips if you haven't already.

166
00:33:55.970 --> 00:34:05.990
Tim Beiko: And now, yeah, main thing in Fusaka is pure. Das, I believe Sunnyside Labs has an update on the work they've been doing on the pure Das devnets

167
00:34:07.170 --> 00:34:32.210
Minhyuk Kim: Yeah, Hello, everyone. My name is Minya from site labs. And we are currently working on helping peer to ship faster by running quick iterations of devnets with higher block counts like 72. So we're currently mostly working with the consensus client teams in identifying potential bottlenecks. But as Perez pack expands into the execution layer. I think there will be more to test in the El site as well.

168
00:34:32.400 --> 00:34:50.689
Minhyuk Kim: So I've left the links to the reports of the test we did in the past few weeks in the execution dev discord. So I'd really appreciate it if the El Teams could take a look at it, and see if there are any other tests or analysis that we could do on the El side as well.

169
00:34:50.949 --> 00:35:05.800
Minhyuk Kim: So, like few things already came up, such as like. We were testing with the large number of blobs like 50 blobs per block, with Petra and tierdas, and we saw some limitations in the Tx Pool size.

170
00:35:05.860 --> 00:35:24.139
Minhyuk Kim: So I mean, we could manually increase the default expo size of the clients to maintain a good hit rate in the gap blobs. But maybe if we aim to scale this to the higher blob count in Saka, we might want to consider like different approaches to the blob polls.

171
00:35:24.580 --> 00:35:40.949
Minhyuk Kim: So like. This is one of the many discussions to come. But I just wanted to highlight here and ask for some feedback and comments in the relation to high blob performances across the frontier, and what we could do to help things ship faster.

172
00:35:42.180 --> 00:35:43.030
Minhyuk Kim: Thank you.

173
00:35:47.180 --> 00:35:48.050
Tim Beiko: Thank you.

174
00:35:49.680 --> 00:35:54.920
Tim Beiko: Yeah. Any questions concerns.

175
00:35:55.670 --> 00:36:11.880
Tim Beiko: If not, then I think the main thing we should probably touch on a bit is the sell proof competition? But okay, Francesco has a actual question, yet has a very large transaction. Full size. You think the size is a problem or the prioritization logic

176
00:36:12.802 --> 00:36:26.539
Minhyuk Kim: We didn't see the problem with get, or we saw the issue in other clients. But I think it could be the size problem, since, like, we are increasing, the block counts by the factors of 10.

177
00:36:26.670 --> 00:36:28.050
Minhyuk Kim: So yeah.

178
00:36:28.940 --> 00:36:33.130
Felix: So maybe a quick comment from my side on this, since Geth has a disk based

179
00:36:33.250 --> 00:36:41.720
Felix: transaction pool for the blobs, it's like we. There isn't really a limit to it. At the same time, it does require some like SSD space.

180
00:36:41.820 --> 00:36:45.810
Felix: So this is just something to keep in mind is that we are not bounded by the

181
00:36:45.940 --> 00:37:01.520
Felix: are the amount of main memory for our blob pool, which is why we are able to run it with much higher limits than the other client, and also it is not a shared limit with other transactions, since it is a dedicated pool for blob transactions only

182
00:37:06.430 --> 00:37:06.970
Minhyuk Kim: Oops!

183
00:37:10.240 --> 00:37:21.539
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, for for another mind. We are saving block transactions to this as well, and we are limiting it. But number of transactions. So by default, it's 16,000

184
00:37:22.093 --> 00:37:45.769
Marcin Sobczak: of block transactions. So actually, our, this space will be growing when and there will be more blobs in transactions. So if we will not limit Max number of blobs per transactions, we will just need to decrease a bit. Our maximum amount of transactions in block pool

185
00:37:46.156 --> 00:37:55.440
Marcin Sobczak: but generally it's we are sending it to disk so it should. There, there will be no memory problem at all.

186
00:38:08.270 --> 00:38:08.970
Tim Beiko: Okay.

187
00:38:10.010 --> 00:38:11.779
Tim Beiko: Any other questions on this.

188
00:38:15.550 --> 00:38:27.300
Tim Beiko: if not the other part of the El peered aspect that we should discuss is this cell proof? Computation. I don't know who's the right person to give an update on this Alex.

189
00:38:29.480 --> 00:38:30.440
stokes: Yeah, hey?

190
00:38:31.970 --> 00:38:37.459
stokes: So I linked to Prs here, I think most people know the topic.

191
00:38:37.570 --> 00:38:43.439
stokes: There's a migration of the salt proofs, which is a slightly new type of proof in paradox that we have.

192
00:38:43.710 --> 00:38:48.890
stokes: There's been the idea to move this to the El from the Cl. We think it will help with performance.

193
00:38:49.300 --> 00:38:58.820
stokes: And yeah, I think there is a lot of good progress on the pure dos breakout this week. I was not able to make it if someone's here and wants to give an update that would be useful.

194
00:38:58.960 --> 00:39:08.549
stokes: But either way I'd like to merge these 2 as quickly as possible, so do we feel like we're in a place to do that. Are there any final questions or comments people have

195
00:39:18.500 --> 00:39:28.509
Francesco: So I think one of the main updates from the breakout was, we pretty much agreed that we should have this version byte that Felix suggested. So I think

196
00:39:28.900 --> 00:39:34.279
Francesco: unless someone wants to speak now, that that should be like a final decision. Because we've kind of

197
00:39:34.740 --> 00:39:37.110
Francesco: yeah, we've been talking about this for a while, and

198
00:39:37.300 --> 00:39:40.769
Francesco: really that seemed to be the the consensus on the call

199
00:39:42.760 --> 00:39:45.370
stokes: Is that in the specs already in these Prs.

200
00:39:46.050 --> 00:39:47.539
Francesco: It's in the IP here.

201
00:39:47.840 --> 00:39:48.530
stokes: Okay.

202
00:39:49.290 --> 00:39:55.160
Justin Traglia: Just to double check. This would go into the execution payload header and the execution payload right?

203
00:39:55.850 --> 00:39:56.999
Justin Traglia: The version byte

204
00:40:00.110 --> 00:40:06.950
Felix: So this version by would only be in the wrapper of the blob transaction that is transmitted over the network.

205
00:40:07.290 --> 00:40:11.680
Felix: So that was the basically the idea, because that is the only place where we actually have

206
00:40:11.790 --> 00:40:16.689
Felix: the proof. So the the versioning there is the versioning of the proof

207
00:40:17.270 --> 00:40:20.300
Felix: and not the versioning of the transaction

208
00:40:22.170 --> 00:40:23.989
Justin Traglia: So it doesn't go in the header

209
00:40:24.210 --> 00:40:28.970
Felix: No, there's no header changes or anything. This is purely like a networking change

210
00:40:28.970 --> 00:40:31.499
Justin Traglia: Okay, per perfect. Yep, that's good.

211
00:40:40.200 --> 00:40:44.829
stokes: Okay, I can take a look at these Prs later today, and

212
00:40:45.300 --> 00:40:47.799
stokes: I will bias towards merging them soon.

213
00:40:57.990 --> 00:40:58.840
Tim Beiko: Sweet?

214
00:41:00.990 --> 00:41:02.649
Tim Beiko: Any other questions.

215
00:41:02.860 --> 00:41:03.710
Tim Beiko: Thoughts.

216
00:41:11.220 --> 00:41:12.035
Tim Beiko: Okay.

217
00:41:13.980 --> 00:41:23.401
Tim Beiko: Then moving on. Okay for eof so there's been a lot of conversations about Eof this past few weeks.

218
00:41:24.070 --> 00:41:32.570
Tim Beiko: some concerns around the complexity of Eof, which were as well articulated in the shared blog post that I had in the chat.

219
00:41:32.980 --> 00:41:54.014
Tim Beiko: and there was a another proposal made by live clients to bring some of the functionality of eof in more piecemeal size, and then ipsilon team also put together a doc explaining, like, what are the different flavors of Eof that we can move forward with if we are to stick to this?

220
00:41:54.580 --> 00:41:55.380
Tim Beiko: so

221
00:41:56.510 --> 00:42:24.880
Tim Beiko: yeah. I asked if teams could share their positions or views in advance of the call. Most of them have. So thank you for this and a high level summarizing on the get side like client was a person who proposed the Eof alternative, and one of the authors of the Post with the complexity concerns. But then, Felix said that he personally supports the one of the options of eof so option d

222
00:42:25.480 --> 00:42:52.859
Tim Beiko: base you seems to generally support eof but also had some or had some uncertainty with regards to which version of it. So there's option A or C from the blog post that they seem to preferred. And then Aragon, Nethermind, and Ref each had posts out, saying that they support eof but those came out, I think, before the blog post with the specific different options. So none of them kind of supported this

223
00:42:53.307 --> 00:42:58.720
Tim Beiko: or none of them sorry kind of specified, which subversion they wanted to have

224
00:42:59.110 --> 00:43:19.689
Tim Beiko: solidity also, put out a block post, saying that they support eof and kind of went into a the list of like. Why, they like each features rather than sticking to an option. And then, Vitalik had an agenda comment, saying that he would be fine with either having these piecemeal options, or like maybe some more minimal version of eof

225
00:43:20.950 --> 00:43:21.880
Tim Beiko: I guess

226
00:43:22.660 --> 00:43:39.333
Tim Beiko: at a high level. It seems like there's pretty broad support for eof still, despite kind of these issues raised around complexity. But maybe I'll I'll start here like does anyone feel like that's not the case. And

227
00:43:40.380 --> 00:43:44.210
Tim Beiko: that we should somehow reconsider all the Vof in light of this?

228
00:43:57.900 --> 00:44:00.090
Tim Beiko: Okay? Then.

229
00:44:00.990 --> 00:44:13.671
Tim Beiko: assuming we do want to move forward with this. The question is, which version should we move forward with? And and and how?

230
00:44:16.780 --> 00:44:19.120
Charles: Yeah, and

231
00:44:19.120 --> 00:44:25.860
Tim Beiko: Oh, yeah, sorry, Osgar. You have a comment.

232
00:44:26.380 --> 00:44:31.420
Tim Beiko: Not quite sure. I got it

233
00:44:34.470 --> 00:44:43.260
Ansgar Dietrichs: Which comment, no, I was just trying to. I mean, I did not speak to Vitalik about this topic. I just I was just saying, I think my understanding is.

234
00:44:44.020 --> 00:44:45.589
Ansgar Dietrichs: Oh, did you mean the other comment

235
00:44:45.590 --> 00:44:50.268
Tim Beiko: Oh, yeah, yeah, like unspecified should mean support for the for the full version. Right?

236
00:44:50.580 --> 00:45:03.719
Ansgar Dietrichs: Shame because you said there's a few clients that didn't specify the option as well, and I think, unless expressly stated otherwise. Given, that the full version was the only one proposed at that time. I think that should be by default interpreted as support for only the full version

237
00:45:05.410 --> 00:45:07.640
Tim Beiko: Got it. Okay, yeah. And then

238
00:45:09.310 --> 00:45:14.150
Tim Beiko: I think the it it seems like, yes, like Felix's post

239
00:45:14.690 --> 00:45:26.470
Tim Beiko: actually oppose this. So and and that seems to be the main second point is, do we actually want to ban code introspection? And yeah, at least, Felix was

240
00:45:26.950 --> 00:45:27.800
Felix: Yeah, I can get

241
00:45:28.570 --> 00:45:29.340
Tim Beiko: Yeah.

242
00:45:29.570 --> 00:45:59.519
Felix: I can give my 2 cents on this. So I mean, I'm not per se, like I mean, I understand that, like some of the benefits of Uf, which I also learned a lot about from Solidity's post. Today. Some of the benefits actually come from having this in. For example, this idea of being able to transpile the contracts like with basically without keeping their original code. This is something that I can understand. Like the fewer features, the Evm has, the easier it is to make it work. And my main concern is just that.

243
00:45:59.800 --> 00:46:02.849
Felix: basically just knowing that people do all kinds of stuff.

244
00:46:03.344 --> 00:46:20.549
Felix: It's I feel like it's pretty strange, for example, to remove the gas introspection because it's something that exists right now, and it is pretty heavily used. So creating a new model where it's not possible is just something that is gonna raise some issues. And

245
00:46:21.650 --> 00:46:40.270
Felix: I'm not sure I mean, this is also something that was raised by I forgot the name of the person, but there was this thing discovered pretty much, I guess, last week or the week before, where, just not having a gas introspection, for example, can lead to a situation where all of a sudden, without some extra precautions.

246
00:46:40.360 --> 00:46:58.850
Felix: there is the problem that even simple transfer operations can all of a sudden lead to an arbitrary execution that wasn't really possible before. And in general I do feel like it's a pretty cool feature in the Evm to be able to constrain the gas of a sub call and just not having that, I guess it's maybe

247
00:46:59.810 --> 00:47:03.720
Felix: tangential to Uf, but is.

248
00:47:04.020 --> 00:47:06.920
Felix: Yeah, there's just a bunch of things where I feel like it could be.

249
00:47:07.080 --> 00:47:32.790
Felix: It's somehow simpler to not do these changes to the, to the model of the Evm. And just only focus on the encoding of the bytecode. Some of like cleaning up some of the basic access to the stack and the memory, and the jumps, and so on, but leaving the fundamental feature set of the Evm. Kind of the same, whereas with this the proposed changes of removing code introspection, removing gas introspection. It really cuts like

250
00:47:33.350 --> 00:47:36.730
Felix: a lot of things out of the model that exists right now.

251
00:47:38.460 --> 00:47:42.549
Felix: So basically and then the other. The reason why I said

252
00:47:42.930 --> 00:47:52.219
Felix: it might be good not to remove these things. It's just because, yeah, I feel like it. Somehow. It it would somehow simplify uf, still like it is

253
00:47:52.370 --> 00:48:19.870
Felix: a compromise in some ways, like some. Some things that uf proponents really want will not be possible. If we have code introspection, or at least they will have to somehow emulate it in some way, or it has some. It has to be evaluated. But what it actually means to have Uf, with these features in place, and probably someone has already done this analysis, and I'm just not aware of it, but kind of what I think is that if we don't focus on removing these particular parts of Evm.

254
00:48:20.340 --> 00:48:28.780
Felix: then it will be a simpler change in the end, because it doesn't remove so much from the Vm.

255
00:48:29.840 --> 00:48:34.289
Felix: and yeah, that's kind of why I put this. But I am. I mean, if

256
00:48:34.400 --> 00:48:47.189
Felix: I would just really prefer to like see some kind of analysis where someone has, I feel like this option of like having Uf with the introspection is kind of a new one also, that's not like it was even listed in that document as being like a very recent

257
00:48:48.190 --> 00:48:49.790
Felix: addition. So

258
00:48:52.000 --> 00:48:52.680
Tim Beiko: Got it.

259
00:48:52.920 --> 00:48:58.429
Tim Beiko: Thank you. There's a couple other hands up. Ben.

260
00:48:59.915 --> 00:49:10.719
Ben Adams: Yeah. So the the pay up code, which is slated for Devnet 2 fixes the the transfer issue. But just on the gas introspection front.

261
00:49:11.378 --> 00:49:16.519
Ben Adams: It is kind of problematic, because we are

262
00:49:16.790 --> 00:49:25.380
Ben Adams: considering repricing all the OP. Codes. So any sort of gas limiting that people put in their contracts will be wrong.

263
00:49:25.931 --> 00:49:30.139
Ben Adams: It when we do reprice it just as an example.

264
00:49:30.639 --> 00:49:43.209
Ben Adams: For code introspection. There's still like data sections that you can inquire. You can ask the contract about, you know data. So you can still put data, and you just can't inspect the actual running code

265
00:49:48.660 --> 00:49:49.720
Tim Beiko: Got it. Thanks.

266
00:49:50.580 --> 00:49:51.260
Tim Beiko: Onstar

267
00:49:52.470 --> 00:50:16.289
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, I just want to say, from my point of view, I I don't have a strong opinion on like overall is you have worth the complexity, cost, or anything, but in terms of just the introspection. I think this has been the kind of result of of pretty long, careful design considerations, including thing things like, it's always easy to add things back later. But it's basically possible to remove. So if we ship the version of Uf without removing introspection. Then

268
00:50:16.440 --> 00:50:44.120
Ansgar Dietrichs: that means that until maybe you have v. 3 or something like in in 5 or 10 years, we will just not have any ability to remove introspection at all, and whereas if we ship it without introspection, it turns out that it really really was important, and the considerations were wrong about why we don't have it. We can always add it back in a fork in a year or so. So I think the the kind of costs of getting this wrong are very asymmetric here, so that I think, should by default biases a lot towards keeping the the bands in.

269
00:50:44.120 --> 00:51:05.439
Ansgar Dietrichs: And then also, in addition, this was the kind of the very mature version that we kind of worked on or like people work towards for years, whereas, like these, these ideas, for, like removing the inspection bands came in last second. So for all of these reasons, I personally think that it would be like a very headless decision to to now last second kind of change, this so fundamentally

270
00:51:06.130 --> 00:51:32.899
Felix: I get it? Maybe one question I have sorry to interject is just with regard to the compatibility, isn't it? Also that, for example, removing code. Introspection means that we I always felt like. This is the main reason why, for example, there, there are these restrictions on calling legacy contracts from within Euf and things like that, like. The only reason not to allow it is to

271
00:51:33.790 --> 00:51:53.470
Felix: basically because it could be used to sidestep the introspection again, so that these kinds of limitations, I feel it will actively hurt the user experience, like, if there is no real interoperability between the 2 systems, if they are kind of isolated from each other. I always felt like that part is a bit weird, and we don't really know how that's even going to play out in the app layer

272
00:51:53.620 --> 00:51:56.370
Felix: like what? That, what that really means.

273
00:51:56.850 --> 00:52:10.809
Felix: But like. So that's that would be another reason for me to just say, Well, if it's if we just if we just don't have that problem because everything kind of remains the same, then it's somehow easier. But this is more like a gut feel thing like I haven't really analyzed this

274
00:52:20.260 --> 00:52:22.640
Tim Beiko: Thanks. Charles, you have your hand up

275
00:52:25.259 --> 00:52:41.039
Charles: Yeah, I I think you maybe apologize if this background but I think you asked if there's like overall concerns, and I do. By the way, I'm Charles from Piper, and I do think there are some

276
00:52:41.240 --> 00:52:52.323
Charles: concerns about complexity on my end. I think that we could get a lot of the benefits of Uf with like much fewer eips and

277
00:52:52.940 --> 00:53:03.949
Charles: I know the code and container format has been worked on for a long time. But like, even from the compiler implementation perspective, like

278
00:53:04.683 --> 00:53:25.040
Charles: if you have, like, eip 2315 subroutines and static jumps that already get to a lot of the benefit of so I wonder if we can do it in some kind of more stripped down way again? I know a lot of the work has been done on this, but I don't think it's too late to think about simplifying it.

279
00:53:27.930 --> 00:53:45.259
Tim Beiko: Right. So I guess on this point there was a proposal by that client, and there was obviously the the post. I don't know if you were one of the authors kind of arguing for this. My sense now is, client. Teams have reviewed all this, and still feel like some version of Eof is the best path forward. But

280
00:53:45.410 --> 00:53:48.029
Tim Beiko: yeah, if that's not the case, does anyone

281
00:53:49.460 --> 00:53:52.790
Tim Beiko: like, yeah, one advocate for that for make that point

282
00:54:02.320 --> 00:54:12.440
lightclient: Think everyone has reviewed most of the posts. But I will just reiterate again, since we need to verbalize some of these things. But there are many risks to doing this.

283
00:54:12.590 --> 00:54:14.319
lightclient: And we.

284
00:54:14.640 --> 00:54:34.590
lightclient: you know, even on much simpler proposals like Tstore and T. Load, have had issues where there are things that we simply did not consider during the design and implementation that ended up becoming problematic and with tstore and tload because it is scope to the transaction level, it kind of negatively affects how we use 4,337 with it.

285
00:54:34.720 --> 00:54:38.019
lightclient: or generally the idea of relaying user operations.

286
00:54:38.170 --> 00:54:59.519
lightclient: So eof is a much bigger change. And there is almost certainly things that are going to negatively going to be negatively impacted. And this is, you know, why I have kind of one of the reasons I've been against Eof, but also like one of the reasons that I agree with Felix, that if we are to do eof, then we should probably not

287
00:54:59.820 --> 00:55:12.050
lightclient: go very strong in the direction of banning a lot of behavior that exists today, because we will likely end up in a world where eof contracts are calling legacy contracts to get around some of the restrictions

288
00:55:15.220 --> 00:55:25.429
Felix: Yeah. So I'm learning this kind of right now that it is. Actually, it appears to be possible actually to just sidestep these restrictions. Anyway like this, there's this is actually not being prevented actively

289
00:55:32.222 --> 00:55:37.439
Ben Adams: You can't. Code introspect Eos, from legacy. It'll tell you. It's like too bad

290
00:55:37.440 --> 00:55:44.999
Felix: Oh, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, right? Right? No, no. Sorry. Yeah. It has it this way. Yeah, yeah, no. I agree. Sorry. Sorry. I was confused.

291
00:55:49.113 --> 00:55:53.750
Ben Adams: Just just on the scale of the changes. Since

292
00:55:53.910 --> 00:56:02.959
Ben Adams: the last hard fork. Geth, for instance, has had a hundred and sorry. 1,430 changes with

293
00:56:03.750 --> 00:56:08.620
Ben Adams: 160,000 lines changed.

294
00:56:08.770 --> 00:56:11.129
Ben Adams: Never mind, because I had about the same scale.

295
00:56:11.470 --> 00:56:15.619
Ben Adams: Eof is in Geth. It's like a thousand line change.

296
00:56:16.470 --> 00:56:21.649
Ben Adams: So you know, compared to how much goes into a fork.

297
00:56:21.920 --> 00:56:25.040
Ben Adams: It is a small change.

298
00:56:26.820 --> 00:56:34.700
Ben Adams: Although you know. Obviously, it's in a it's in a significant impacting.

299
00:56:36.070 --> 00:56:39.780
Ben Adams: But I just want people to not underestimate how large

300
00:56:40.325 --> 00:56:44.349
Ben Adams: the changes between the last hard fork, and the next hard fork

301
00:56:46.390 --> 00:56:47.810
Tim Beiko: Yeah, it does. I, I.

302
00:56:48.460 --> 00:56:53.279
Tim Beiko: This gives like a proxy, but it, I think eof does change

303
00:56:53.600 --> 00:57:11.499
Tim Beiko: an extremely broad surface area of consensus critical code, which is different than I don't know what Guest did since the last hard fork. But if they added, you know, a bunch of Json Rpc stuff, or like, you know, stuff at the edges. Obviously, that's different than like rewriting. Dvm.

304
00:57:12.850 --> 00:57:16.249
Tim Beiko: yeah, Matthew, you had your hand up and then go up

305
00:57:17.568 --> 00:57:18.759
Matthew Keil: I think it's worth saying.

306
00:57:20.130 --> 00:57:25.030
Matthew Keil: There's a lot of discussion. I haven't heard anything, and

307
00:57:25.140 --> 00:57:34.270
Matthew Keil: and that's 1 of those things is, Eof does open up a broad surface for additional Mev, and if there's going to be additional

308
00:57:34.270 --> 00:57:36.490
Tim Beiko: Sorry? Why is that? Why is that true?

309
00:57:37.555 --> 00:57:58.949
Matthew Keil: You know, I was talking with Guillaume about this and the idea that you can precompile all the contracts because there's a lot less of the dynamic jumps. And whatnot it gives you as as a block builder the ability to figure out much quicker how to pack the block

310
00:57:59.214 --> 00:58:23.329
Matthew Keil: because you don't have to do it. you, you could do it much faster, and I don't know enough about the other changes that are coming into the eof spec now, and I just wanted to at least bring it up as a cld, because I don't know, how some of the El stuff works that someone in research is talking about that, or at least looking at it. What are the implications to some of these new changes that are going to be coming in

311
00:58:27.990 --> 00:58:44.149
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I I don't think this creates more. Mev, I think it. It might make block building more efficient. And so would it make like verifying transactions. So I I would not go down this round of hold. Now. Yeah, you'll have to a bunch of comments about the interactions of this and account abstraction

312
00:58:45.392 --> 00:59:10.267
Yoav: Yeah, I wanted to reply to Matt's comment about potential potential issues with compatibility with the 47. So 1st of all, for account obstruction in general. I see things like gas introspection as a net positive, at least in the context of a validation. We don't really need the introspection. So eap 7, 7. 0, 1 does, removes the need for having this?

313
00:59:10.650 --> 00:59:24.089
Yoav: But, as Matt pointed out, until we have 7,701, which will happen hopefully. One folk after eof we have to continue using 43, 7, and the entry point contact does require a gas introspection.

314
00:59:24.090 --> 00:59:43.760
Yoav: However, I don't see it as a problem, because, you can still call entry Point as a legacy, as a legacy contract, and to my understanding it can. The accounts themselves. All the other contracts involved can be eof because you can call into an Eof contract from from entry point, which is not an Uf. Contract.

315
00:59:43.800 --> 00:59:51.309
Yoav: so I don't. So personally, I don't see an issue with having the full version of, say, eof from account, abstraction, perspective.

316
00:59:55.560 --> 00:59:56.050
Tim Beiko: Okay?

317
00:59:56.940 --> 01:00:01.890
Tim Beiko: So I guess to summarize where we're at. It seems like

318
01:00:03.050 --> 01:00:13.770
Tim Beiko: there's support pretty unanimous for uf a pretty broad support for uf gas and code introspection.

319
01:00:14.540 --> 01:00:18.530
Tim Beiko: Seems like there's moderate support towards removing this.

320
01:00:22.550 --> 01:00:34.871
Tim Beiko: and there was a comment as well in the chat from earlier around, like what versions have been tested? And you know, the versions that are currently tested are the ones which do remove all of the introspection.

321
01:00:36.070 --> 01:00:45.290
Tim Beiko: so what if we were to add introspection back in? How big of a change is this like? Is this something we expect to take

322
01:00:45.780 --> 01:00:48.979
Tim Beiko: fair bit of work, or is it fairly trivial to to do?

323
01:00:52.362 --> 01:00:54.060
Tim Beiko: Yeah, you want to share demo

324
01:01:02.490 --> 01:01:05.249
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Okay, so the question of how would we remove them?

325
01:01:05.670 --> 01:01:11.430
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Option a is complete Eof, and that is the plan of record that we had a few weeks ago on our Devnet plan.

326
01:01:11.660 --> 01:01:20.960
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: so if we get rid of them, there are 3 approaches we can do, and the main 3 differences between these 3 is what happens in the create process and the create pads.

327
01:01:21.140 --> 01:01:29.460
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Introspecting Eof is closest to what we have a complete eof today. All that we do here is we expose the existing ban, OP. Codes

328
01:01:29.876 --> 01:01:56.180
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: so we would just ban, I think, 7 OP. Codes. We wouldn't ban nearly as many, so we would have the the old call OP codes, which would give us full gas utility, and we would allow ext code copy into eof contracts. However, you would not be able to write an Eof contract from memory, you would still need to use Uf, create a creation transaction or Tx create. Coming from an init code transaction. If you want to do dynamic creations.

329
01:01:56.290 --> 01:02:15.790
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: So that's what this introspecting eip preserves. It preserves basically all of complete except it gives you gas introspection and the read introspection on the band code introspection. So we would just band code writing from memory, which is the more critical piece for jit compilers.

330
01:02:16.160 --> 01:02:20.519
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: The next one is baseline eof, that's C. It was a C option.

331
01:02:20.640 --> 01:02:22.589
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: We change it so that

332
01:02:23.117 --> 01:02:44.960
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: create and create 2 can take either Eof or legacy contracts, and then it switches down one of 2 paths. If you're using init code, that is, from Eof, then you can only create Uf contracts from that. And if you have a knit code that is legacy, you can only create init code. You can only create contracts that are legacy, and it uses the existing Eof create version.

333
01:02:45.399 --> 01:02:59.180
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: The 3rd option which is based off of what we had at Shanghai only listed what we had in Shanghai, and what was mandatory? All the create and create to everything would come from memory, whether it's eof formatted container or whether it's legacy

334
01:02:59.180 --> 01:03:15.530
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: and the create options would would apply to those. And for this minimal option we could very easily add 620-26-3748. It would be easier to just leave them in than to take them out. What really differs between these 3 is how the create options work.

335
01:03:16.560 --> 01:03:24.540
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: So the introspection is best preserved. The the the benefits of code introspection are best preserved in the introspecting eof

336
01:03:25.123 --> 01:03:33.589
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: the code is least changed with baseline and minimal. We completely and totally would remove the notion of introspection dance

337
01:03:44.760 --> 01:03:45.460
Tim Beiko: Okay.

338
01:03:48.270 --> 01:03:58.700
Tim Beiko: So it feels almost weird to like, go back to the original version we had, which is like.

339
01:03:59.240 --> 01:04:01.609
Tim Beiko: Hey, but I feel like at this point.

340
01:04:01.800 --> 01:04:14.420
Tim Beiko: The yeah full eof with the pay up code seems like the most consensus path forward.

341
01:04:17.900 --> 01:04:20.999
Tim Beiko: Should we do that? Or I? I feel like either.

342
01:04:21.160 --> 01:04:25.269
Tim Beiko: Yeah, this is it. Then we move forward with it.

343
01:04:26.340 --> 01:04:40.560
Tim Beiko: the other option is like, if we agree, we want to do eof, and people feel like there's more stuff to discuss. We can finalize the actual spec on the breakouts next week. But I think at the very least

344
01:04:40.980 --> 01:04:46.154
Tim Beiko: today, it seems like, yeah, there's broad support to stick with. Eof.

345
01:04:46.770 --> 01:04:50.720
Tim Beiko: And then, yeah, some supports towards

346
01:04:51.386 --> 01:04:56.909
Tim Beiko: like the full version. But I don't know if that needs to be debated some more. Ben

347
01:04:58.248 --> 01:05:03.270
Ben Adams: An important thing to highlight is that Eof doesn't overwrite. It doesn't.

348
01:05:03.985 --> 01:05:07.015
Ben Adams: alias any existing OP. Codes. So

349
01:05:08.000 --> 01:05:11.333
Ben Adams: you know, if if in the future

350
01:05:12.410 --> 01:05:18.879
Ben Adams: it was decided we needed gas introspection that could be reintroduced. It wouldn't. It wouldn't cause a

351
01:05:18.990 --> 01:05:26.580
Ben Adams: a terrible conflict. Removing them would be a problem. Because once they're already there, you can't take them out

352
01:05:27.950 --> 01:05:28.630
Ben Adams: because of that. Yeah.

353
01:05:28.630 --> 01:05:45.600
Tim Beiko: That would also be my intuition that I personally would rather see a version of Eos ship with the bands than one without. Because, yeah, if we realize that we ship the of with the bands and that was a mistake, we can always add them in. But

354
01:05:46.370 --> 01:05:59.631
Tim Beiko: yeah, if we ship you off without those bands. We have something that's very close to the Evm. Already, and then no opportunity to no opportunity to like change that in the future.

355
01:06:06.720 --> 01:06:08.150
Tim Beiko: yeah, Onsgar.

356
01:06:08.410 --> 01:06:19.239
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, one last question, just on on process here. Do we want to make a, are we making a final decision on Uf today or I. I know that there was like a lot of the opposition to Earth in general came from

357
01:06:19.370 --> 01:06:37.149
Ansgar Dietrichs: people that are not super close to the Acd process. So I'm just wondering if it's worth basically saying, okay, we basically a plus pay is the version we want to go with preliminary decision. We basically confirm this in 2 weeks, unless there's like some strong push, basically by people or something. Then we revisit? Or are we just making the call today

358
01:06:37.150 --> 01:06:48.250
Tim Beiko: I think we should make the call today. I think that, like the post that was written around the complexity objections was extremely good and well articulated and thorough, and I

359
01:06:48.780 --> 01:06:59.330
Tim Beiko: at least I don't. For the past few years I follow the of like. I haven't seen other objections that what was put into this post. So I don't know that we'll get much more signal by like

360
01:06:59.570 --> 01:07:04.907
Tim Beiko: doing another round of feedback. And I think,

361
01:07:05.900 --> 01:07:15.650
Tim Beiko: yeah, I I think we kind of have all the data. I I'm fine saying, if people feel like we need like a few more days to decide on the specific like configuration of Eof

362
01:07:15.940 --> 01:07:23.421
Tim Beiko: that might be reasonable, but at the very least agreeing that we broadly include Eof

363
01:07:24.850 --> 01:07:36.130
Tim Beiko: seems to make sense and I think we can maybe get more than that. If we have consensus that we wanna, we wanna keep the the interest introspection bands and add the pay OP. Code.

364
01:07:38.083 --> 01:07:39.110
Tim Beiko: Yeah. Felix

365
01:07:40.120 --> 01:07:51.369
Felix: So just to mention something in general, our process is structured as such that even if we fully commit to shipping uaf option a today. If a

366
01:07:51.670 --> 01:08:08.909
Felix: breaking incompatibility or security related issue is discovered in the proposal, it will be retracted, or the issue has to be fixed. So I feel like it. It's very valuable today to agree on something, because

367
01:08:09.110 --> 01:08:12.349
Felix: whatever we decide, if there is something that

368
01:08:12.910 --> 01:08:26.580
Felix: means we cannot do it. It won't get done. Anyways, it's not like we have to do it. Then it's just this has happened before, like people. We have decided on something, and then we had to pull it later, because some last minute thing was discovered. So

369
01:08:27.090 --> 01:08:33.202
Tim Beiko: Yeah, yeah. So I think, obviously, if we find some critical security issue like, that's always the case. But I do think,

370
01:08:34.470 --> 01:08:38.799
Tim Beiko: like, yeah. Barring that, we should no longer revisit this decision once we make it.

371
01:08:39.580 --> 01:08:40.260
Tim Beiko: Yeah.

372
01:08:43.370 --> 01:08:45.350
Tim Beiko: Oscar.

373
01:08:45.649 --> 01:09:07.269
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah. One last point. Just also, as we start moving to talking about the other features. For Fusaka, either today or like in 2 weeks. I do. I still maintain, and I think it's good. It would be good if we could could affirm this, or at least affirm this in 2 weeks that I still think that the biggest priority by far of Fuzaka is Peter's. So I would stick with the plan that we ship Fusaka the moment Peter's is ready.

374
01:09:07.878 --> 01:09:36.019
Ansgar Dietrichs: and and basically stable. And that means that if, for example, you have for some reason does take longer in actually like working out all the kings. And people are not comfortable with the readiness of you have. By the time that that Pdas is is ready, I would still prefer, or any other feature that we might end up, adding, I would still very strongly prefer, if we basically are okay with, just let let leaving any features behind that just can't make it in time, because I really think, like Peters is the main feature for this year.

375
01:09:40.140 --> 01:09:41.069
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I

376
01:09:41.910 --> 01:09:49.157
Tim Beiko: I think I would. I would agree with that and especially because this fork is pretty isolated.

377
01:09:50.290 --> 01:09:51.010
Tim Beiko: yeah.

378
01:09:51.609 --> 01:09:59.827
Tim Beiko: okay? And I guess. Yeah, before we we before we move on from the topic. The author of the complexity post.

379
01:10:00.670 --> 01:10:04.069
Tim Beiko: I'm I'm not sure what your actual name is but like P. Cavas

380
01:10:04.440 --> 01:10:13.716
Tim Beiko: Trevor Sakio. Sorry if I butchered your name. Is on. Do you want to give? Maybe, like some background on your perspective here. And oh, Pascal,

381
01:10:14.680 --> 01:10:19.140
Tim Beiko: yeah, your perspective on Uf, and like, what got you to write the post and the concerns

382
01:10:19.970 --> 01:10:22.059
pcaversaccio: Sure you hear me

383
01:10:22.920 --> 01:10:23.550
Tim Beiko: Yes.

384
01:10:23.830 --> 01:10:24.730
pcaversaccio: Okay, cool.

385
01:10:25.540 --> 01:10:33.695
pcaversaccio: So I mean, I'm coming mostly from the application side. And I saw that. Yeah, you would like to get ef included. And

386
01:10:34.850 --> 01:10:39.760
pcaversaccio: I started reading about it, and it took me a lot of time to understand what's going on.

387
01:10:40.090 --> 01:10:50.699
pcaversaccio: And this is a huge concern to me because if it's so complex and it takes so much time to understand such a huge upgrade.

388
01:10:50.870 --> 01:11:08.599
pcaversaccio: You can't expect the community to give feedback. And about the community meeting on the application side. We had, for instance, for Teastore, T. Load. We had enough people from the application side who actually yeah, try to contribute, but the complexity of ef in itself the package overall.

389
01:11:08.790 --> 01:11:13.629
pcaversaccio: it takes so much knowledge, background, knowledge, and time

390
01:11:13.800 --> 01:11:15.979
pcaversaccio: to understand the scope of it.

391
01:11:16.300 --> 01:11:18.200
pcaversaccio: And this is a huge

392
01:11:19.600 --> 01:11:39.109
pcaversaccio: concern to me personally, and that's why I started actually advocating against it. Because even right now, if I look into Tx, create Prs takes 3Â h, or to understand what's going on for me, and to try to write feedback right? And there's some sort of disconnect

393
01:11:39.270 --> 01:11:43.419
pcaversaccio: between the core layer of people really understand what they're building

394
01:11:43.620 --> 01:11:52.540
pcaversaccio: and on the on the execution layer and on the application side right now for this for this specific upgrade. And that's

395
01:11:53.000 --> 01:12:04.059
pcaversaccio: I mean I'm against Uf. I can say here doesn't mean that my my opinion counts at all. But I'm really against Uf even at this point in time.

396
01:12:04.470 --> 01:12:07.559
pcaversaccio: And yeah, that's that's what I want to say.

397
01:12:10.620 --> 01:12:32.442
Tim Beiko: Thanks. Yeah. And I will say, look, I appreciate the time you've spent writing this, I again. I've said this, I think maybe right before you join, but it feels like the objections and concerns were very well articulated. My sense now is, people have reviewed this and still feel like it is the the right path forward.

398
01:12:34.190 --> 01:12:39.059
Tim Beiko: but and yeah, like, these are complex changes to review. One

399
01:12:39.530 --> 01:12:54.024
Tim Beiko: one thing I will note is, you know the people working on it have been thinking about this for the better part of 5 years, and yes, there is complexity in Eof, but it's also kind of the result of a long iterative process. So

400
01:12:55.330 --> 01:13:03.991
Tim Beiko: yeah, I I it. It is something we should consider. But we should push back. We shouldn't decide to not do something just because there is complexity in it.

401
01:13:04.430 --> 01:13:09.799
Tim Beiko: yeah, I don't think it came across as disrespectful or anything. So I appreciate. Yeah.

402
01:13:10.330 --> 01:13:12.900
Tim Beiko: the the raising, the concern.

403
01:13:13.280 --> 01:13:14.020
Tim Beiko: And

404
01:13:15.100 --> 01:13:32.421
Tim Beiko: to move this forward practically, I guess one question I had in the chat is, if we went with option A, which seems to be the favored one at this point, and we added the pay up code, which, seems like we we have to. What would be the diff with what we already have in the Meta eip

405
01:13:34.340 --> 01:13:36.939
Tim Beiko: is there? Does someone have it like off

406
01:13:37.412 --> 01:13:39.600
Tim Beiko: off the top of their heads, or

407
01:13:40.900 --> 01:13:49.399
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: So what scheduled for inclusion does not include eip, 7, 7, 6, 1, eip, 7, 8, 8 0.

408
01:13:49.590 --> 01:13:56.695
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: And those are what I call symbolic introspection, which have been requested, came in last year from like

409
01:13:57.180 --> 01:14:17.939
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Eip, 720 developers for for nfts, and those address those, and also open. Zeppelin has some concerns about safe proxies, and the and the delegates, and the type and address address those. So those who need to be moved in and payop code, I think, falls in the same bucket. It's not symbolic introspection, but it solves important findings that were brought forth by the community.

410
01:14:18.368 --> 01:14:27.700
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: And also one request from sourceify 7, 8, 3, 4, and these were all listed in the testnet plan that I presented over a month ago.

411
01:14:27.900 --> 01:14:31.109
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: and these are mostly devnet 2 features.

412
01:14:31.540 --> 01:14:51.260
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: and the way it's structured is devnet. One has all the backwards incompatible features and stuff in Devnet 2 is forward, compatible. If we run out of time and period as is ready on the 1st of June. We could cut with what we have, and and drop Devnet to if we have to. So the design of the devnet is, we could cut it if we need to, and I think you know.

413
01:14:51.380 --> 01:15:07.250
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: on a different unrelated tangent that might be a model we might want to go for forks in the future is just because your schedule doesn't mean you're going to go in because it might get cut, because it's time to ship, and that just means you have a priority position for the fork. After that only works. If we do faster forks, so separate discussion.

414
01:15:08.250 --> 01:15:12.950
Tim Beiko: Yeah. So I guess in terms of a practical next step here, I feel like we should

415
01:15:13.470 --> 01:15:27.519
Tim Beiko: schedule for inclusion the eips we want in the next eof devnet and then cfi the other ones that are part of option a, and including pay

416
01:15:28.179 --> 01:15:51.680
Tim Beiko: could you open a pr against me. I want to make sure we get this right. I know there's a lot of Ufips. But can you open a Pr. Against the Meta eip to do that where we yeah, sfi, the ones that would be in the next Uf devnet cfi, the ones that would be in the ones after that, and then we can make it. We can make a call to add them progressively based on how Peer Das evolves

417
01:15:52.560 --> 01:15:55.019
Danno Ferrin | Ipsilon: Yeah, I will do that before lunch.

418
01:15:55.310 --> 01:16:18.529
Tim Beiko: Okay, thank you very much. So, and yeah, so a high level, the decision would be, move forward with option. A for eof include the pay off code, change and then break this down into manage manageable chunks for the Devnet implementation so that we're not holding off. We're not holding all of peered ass. If that is ready and you know, eof is a devnet one instead of devnet 2.

419
01:16:19.460 --> 01:16:25.269
Tim Beiko: Does that sound reasonable? Any final comments. Objections.

420
01:16:32.970 --> 01:16:33.770
Tim Beiko: Okay?

421
01:16:34.651 --> 01:16:40.609
Tim Beiko: Yeah. Thanks. Everyone. I think, yeah, I'm pretty happy. We finally got to a decision on this.

422
01:16:41.210 --> 01:16:41.960
Tim Beiko: yeah.

423
01:16:42.390 --> 01:16:44.556
Tim Beiko: And we can move forward,

424
01:16:45.560 --> 01:16:57.877
Tim Beiko: On the on the Fusaka front more broadly. So teams are like expected to share their preferences for all of the scope of the fork next week. We wanted to make sure that

425
01:16:58.380 --> 01:17:26.873
Tim Beiko: we got like the big fundamental pieces locked in first.st So that's eof and pure das some teams have already put out blog posts. It seems like the only eip that came up in all of those posts. Was raising the gas costs, for MoD. Exp is the only El team that doesn't have a a blog post out yet. But I think if we wanted to take one more decision today, I would consider cfiing this

426
01:17:27.330 --> 01:17:40.499
Tim Beiko: vip about raising the MoD Xp gas costs. Also fine waiting to next week. If people want to have a call where we actually go through, like all of the different proposed Ips, and only make decisions, then.

427
01:17:43.048 --> 01:17:50.849
Tim Beiko: and yeah, if we wanted to. Cfi the MoD. Xp repricing, I would just sign it to check with guests that they're also okay with it.

428
01:17:53.640 --> 01:18:19.589
Felix: I mean, yeah, I can give the statement right here that I think like scoping it with Euf and the couple other small changes that were proposed is totally fine for us. This is literally also how we see it. It's mostly the issue, just we don't really have a blog to post it on. So I guess we we would be putting out a statement somewhere. But basically, we agree with the positions that are put forth by

429
01:18:19.720 --> 01:18:21.660
Felix: everyone else.

430
01:18:22.980 --> 01:18:27.540
Tim Beiko: Okay, so I'll move to Cfi. I'll move to Cfi. One

431
01:18:28.440 --> 01:18:36.515
Tim Beiko: to. Sorry I moved the MoD. Xp repricing, which is Vip. 7, 8, 8, 3 to cfi

432
01:18:37.460 --> 01:18:43.389
Tim Beiko: and we can discuss all the other eips on the next call. But that one was just

433
01:18:43.500 --> 01:18:47.445
Tim Beiko: yeah unanimously stated. So it's kind of a no brainer.

434
01:18:49.620 --> 01:18:54.870
Tim Beiko: and yeah, well, we actually have 20Â min to talk about the other topics. So I think we should move on

435
01:18:55.280 --> 01:18:58.269
Tim Beiko: anything else on Fusaka before we wrap up.

436
01:19:00.190 --> 01:19:01.560
Tim Beiko: Yeah, Potus

437
01:19:01.760 --> 01:19:03.359
Charles: Freaking out.

438
01:19:06.091 --> 01:19:08.419
Tim Beiko: We can't hear you, Potus, if you're speaking.

439
01:19:13.950 --> 01:19:15.530
Tim Beiko: Okay, Charles

440
01:19:18.282 --> 01:19:28.370
Charles: I know it's a late change, but it's a small one. I'd like to propose. Eip 7, 9, 0, 3 and 7, 9, 0, 7 for increasing code sizing.

441
01:19:28.637 --> 01:19:31.039
Tim Beiko: What is the IP. Sorry. 7, 9. 0, 3,

442
01:19:31.800 --> 01:19:37.630
Charles: 7, 9, 0, 3 and 7, 9, 0, 7,

443
01:19:37.630 --> 01:19:46.769
Tim Beiko: Yeah. So you already had those on the Meta eip. So I so the plan now is, teams will review this list of Pfi vips over the next 2 weeks, and we can discuss

444
01:19:46.970 --> 01:19:49.999
Tim Beiko: that on the next call. So

445
01:19:50.180 --> 01:20:09.139
Tim Beiko: I'll post the link here in the chat. But there's a bunch that have been proposed and of include in addition, sorry to the list I just posted. There were 2 more whose Prs couldn't be merged for some random bot issues. I had those in the in the agenda. But the expectation now is that given we

446
01:20:09.640 --> 01:20:14.080
Tim Beiko: we know we're moving forward with eof and pure. Das, yeah.

447
01:20:14.420 --> 01:20:17.520
Tim Beiko: In the next 2 weeks we can finalize the scope for everything else.

448
01:20:21.373 --> 01:20:22.240
Tim Beiko: Yeah, photos

449
01:20:22.700 --> 01:20:23.230
Potuz: I'm sorry.

450
01:20:23.230 --> 01:20:24.980
Potuz: Think I probably fixed it

451
01:20:24.980 --> 01:20:25.570
Tim Beiko: Yes.

452
01:20:25.790 --> 01:20:51.719
Potuz: Okay. Good. So I'm not sure if it's for this call or the next one, or the very next one. But I I'd love to to have a discussion about, not about which Eip goes or which Eip doesn't go, but about timing of works, whether or not we want to prioritize scoping for time or scoping for content. And I think this discussion should be held before agreeing on what is gonna be.

453
01:20:52.390 --> 01:20:56.719
Potuz: And I I could, if you want, I can give you an argument or otherwise. We could just

454
01:20:56.720 --> 01:20:57.340
Tim Beiko: You know I

455
01:20:57.678 --> 01:20:59.029
Potuz: For whatever it goes.

456
01:20:59.030 --> 01:21:02.729
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I agree with that, I think for Fusaka specifically.

457
01:21:03.370 --> 01:21:07.170
Tim Beiko: It seems clear to me that every single team.

458
01:21:07.500 --> 01:21:17.444
Tim Beiko: or at least every single team I've spoken with says they want pure desk by the end of the year. And that should be our like baseline.

459
01:21:18.140 --> 01:21:28.299
Tim Beiko: starting point we literally just talked about this with with, you know, how would we handle eof if pure das is ready before? So I think we we should probably make this more explicit

460
01:21:28.550 --> 01:21:35.050
Tim Beiko: in general and and and moving forward. But I for Petra, specific, sorry for Fusaka. Specifically.

461
01:21:35.440 --> 01:21:43.853
Tim Beiko: I think it's shared by every single team to to get peered. Us live before the end of the year and or before Def connect

462
01:21:45.080 --> 01:21:45.969
Tim Beiko: But if

463
01:21:46.310 --> 01:21:55.990
Tim Beiko: yeah, if a team doesn't feel that way I think they should make that clear. But I I don't think there is one, as far as I can tell.

464
01:21:56.405 --> 01:22:11.820
Tim Beiko: This doesn't mean we add nothing else to like the fork. But I think it. Yeah. It means we should wait that against the shipping date, and it also means that we should. We should be willing to remove stuff if it if it blocks if it blocks pure dash shipping earlier.

465
01:22:13.080 --> 01:22:15.880
Tim Beiko: Yeah.

466
01:22:16.190 --> 01:22:31.229
Tim Beiko: and and sorry. One more thing. So there's a comment about the r. 1 curve in the chat. I think the way we should proceed for the El side or the El on the Cl. It seems like there's 1 big feature to ship, and that's pretty much it on the El there's Eof. But there's also a bunch of small features.

467
01:22:31.520 --> 01:22:47.629
Tim Beiko: My proposal there would be we only Sfi stuff when we're ready to implement them. So say that, like now we all agree the eof plus the MoD xp, or sorry Eof was like Sfi and we've like Cfi, this MoD. Xp repricing. Maybe we cfi the r 1 curve.

468
01:22:48.030 --> 01:22:58.276
Tim Beiko: We only move those into the fork when, like everything else, is ready, and then we can make a call like look if we can only implement one more thing. Do we do. MoD. Xp, do we do the r 1 curve,

469
01:22:58.840 --> 01:23:14.490
Tim Beiko: or or whatever but like. And yeah, sorry the the r 1 curve is already Cfi. So when we move, basically moving things from Cfi to Sfi should mean that we are putting it in the next devnet. And we don't think it's gonna significantly delay the 4th

470
01:23:14.790 --> 01:23:25.130
Tim Beiko: So for now, what we would have specified is Eof peered us. Let's focus on implementing those and then see how close we are to shipping peered us.

471
01:23:27.140 --> 01:23:32.420
Tim Beiko: Sorry, long, winded way of saying for Fusaka specifically, we should end the ship before the end of the year.

472
01:23:36.900 --> 01:23:39.400
Tim Beiko: Anything else on Fusaka.

473
01:23:46.060 --> 01:23:53.012
Tim Beiko: Okay? On the history expiry and portal side. There were a few things to discuss. The 1st was

474
01:23:53.490 --> 01:24:02.740
Tim Beiko: this issue around the interaction of history expiry and the deposit logs. Alex, you put something about this in the chat

475
01:24:04.600 --> 01:24:27.859
stokes: Yeah. So there was a summary in the comment on the issue. For today's call. Essentially given the way that 61 10 which changes, how deposits process, how clients today get the history for the deposit contract processing. There's a bit of a dependency here with history expiry, and from last week's call, we decided to

476
01:24:28.120 --> 01:24:32.286
stokes: wait for Petra before moving ahead with history expiry.

477
01:24:32.970 --> 01:24:43.570
stokes: So yeah, I think because of that, we said, Move ahead with doing this on sepulia both to test. And then also again, the fact that pector is live there. We have this dependency resolved already.

478
01:24:43.920 --> 01:24:51.670
stokes: And yeah, I think just because of that, then there would be an update to timelines for history expiry. And I think that was essentially the context

479
01:24:58.573 --> 01:24:59.419
Tim Beiko: Yeah. Mikkel

480
01:25:00.080 --> 01:25:10.884
Mikhail Kalinin: I just want to add a bit on that. I think we should be before doing the expiry. We should be sure that all cl clients.

481
01:25:11.960 --> 01:25:17.989
Mikhail Kalinin: can actually sync a node from scratch without depending on historical deposits.

482
01:25:18.260 --> 01:25:22.260
Mikhail Kalinin: So after the 61,

483
01:25:23.010 --> 01:25:37.679
Mikhail Kalinin: 6, 1 10 activation, there will be a period of deprecating the previous mechanism, and after that cl clients will be able to completely wipe it, wipe it out from from their code bases.

484
01:25:38.505 --> 01:25:51.260
Mikhail Kalinin: I don't know how how cl clients all cl clients are designed around this feature, but in the past, if I'm not mistaken, some of them were acquiring sinking deposits before they could start.

485
01:25:51.490 --> 01:25:54.099
Mikhail Kalinin: for instance, to serve validator

486
01:25:54.556 --> 01:26:01.143
Mikhail Kalinin: clients so just want to bring this up for us, you know, for for us not to

487
01:26:01.820 --> 01:26:12.760
Mikhail Kalinin: forget about this. And I think testing with Sepoli is important to show this, and probably it also will require infrastructure node operators to actually.

488
01:26:12.940 --> 01:26:21.569
Mikhail Kalinin: I don't know. Maybe be aware of this, that for Bootstrap. And then, you know, they will need to use a new software. Yeah. So

489
01:26:23.295 --> 01:26:29.850
Mikhail Kalinin: from scratch means that you start syncing with the empty database

490
01:26:32.530 --> 01:26:47.339
Potuz: But I mean, I assume that you mean just checkpoint sync and backfield back down to Genesis, or something like this, or the week, just subjectivity period, or whatever. But you don't really mean syncing from genesis. Okay.

491
01:26:52.010 --> 01:26:59.160
Piper Merriam: Are there actual cl clients today that are not ready for this? Just curious. I haven't been able to get an answer to that yet.

492
01:27:03.770 --> 01:27:08.360
stokes: I I think you're asking if clients are ready for Petra, and they are

493
01:27:08.960 --> 01:27:10.799
stokes: so it should be good on that front

494
01:27:11.290 --> 01:27:14.050
Piper Merriam: No, but I mean, whether or not, if it's removed.

495
01:27:14.370 --> 01:27:19.139
Piper Merriam: are there Co clients today? That would have a problem if history was drives?

496
01:27:26.200 --> 01:27:32.990
Piper Merriam: Are there cl clients today that if those logs were not available from their execution client that they would have a problem

497
01:27:33.320 --> 01:27:38.000
ethDreamer (Mark): Before the extra upgrade. A lot of cl clients

498
01:27:38.590 --> 01:27:43.540
ethDreamer (Mark): like, if you don't have a deposit snapshot still rely on the logs to sync to the public contract. But

499
01:27:46.060 --> 01:27:52.980
ethDreamer (Mark): while many of them have implemented it, sometimes some of the tooling around syncing doesn't support it.

500
01:27:53.140 --> 01:27:57.610
ethDreamer (Mark): So like it's a fallback, basically, for now, until the fork goes, live

501
01:27:59.080 --> 01:28:06.190
Piper Merriam: Cool and do so. I see prism listed as as potentially one that has a dependency on us

502
01:28:06.190 --> 01:28:22.030
Potuz: I don't think prison has an issue past the period, the 6 1 1 0 period. I mean, it's there are cosmetic messages. But we should work fine if the history is dropped after the transition period after 6, 1, 1 7 0

503
01:28:22.550 --> 01:28:30.539
Piper Merriam: Got it. So prism's fine as long as the drop happens after Petra, and that's fine. If it's shortly after Petra

504
01:28:30.540 --> 01:28:40.599
Potuz: Well, it's it's not Petra. It's after the 6 1 1 0 I mean, there's a transition period after the fork, and after that transition period. If you drop it after that, then it's fine

505
01:28:41.850 --> 01:28:47.920
Piper Merriam: Got it, and we, and reasonably we, expect this transition period to last no longer than

506
01:28:52.490 --> 01:28:59.179
stokes: Depends on the size of the deposit queue at the time of the fork. So it's kinda hard to say, but

507
01:28:59.350 --> 01:29:03.130
stokes: we can look closer to the main net date, and we can get a better

508
01:29:03.130 --> 01:29:11.039
Piper Merriam: Sure, but but just like ballparking it. So that people have a are we talking about 6 weeks? We need 6 months. We need 2 months.

509
01:29:11.370 --> 01:29:13.149
Piper Merriam: We need 8 days, I think, more like a week

510
01:29:13.150 --> 01:29:20.290
stokes: But I think more like weeks or days even. But it depends like if someone comes in and makes like a bunch of deposits right before

511
01:29:20.290 --> 01:29:28.520
Piper Merriam: Sure, but we could set a target date of 4 weeks after the 4, and that we would be in a high confidence of hitting

512
01:29:32.170 --> 01:29:38.929
stokes: Seems fine, but again, I think like we'd have a much more high confidence estimate right near the fork

513
01:29:40.460 --> 01:29:50.049
Potuz: Is it too hard to drop it on Sepholia, or to drop it on booty and change? And and all these chains that already have merged, have a port

514
01:29:50.580 --> 01:29:51.730
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I think

515
01:29:51.970 --> 01:30:05.099
Tim Beiko: I I would agree with that, like, I don't see why we would not run this test through our standard process, especially considering that in the past month everything we've put on a test net has had issues. So I

516
01:30:05.310 --> 01:30:16.470
Piper Merriam: Nope, I I was under the understand. It was my understanding that we had come to some agreement that we were. Gonna do fully a drop on May first.st That's 1 of the other topics for today.

517
01:30:19.840 --> 01:30:20.990
Tim Beiko: Okay, yeah, is that right?

518
01:30:20.990 --> 01:30:21.620
stokes: Is it

519
01:30:21.820 --> 01:30:22.330
Tim Beiko: Yeah.

520
01:30:22.920 --> 01:30:31.050
stokes: I was. Gonna say, the suggestion then, is just focus on sepulia. And then once we do that, then we can think about main debt, although I think Piper is asking if we could go ahead and have some

521
01:30:31.160 --> 01:30:32.840
stokes: main estimation right now.

522
01:30:33.690 --> 01:30:36.300
stokes: But everyone's suggesting we just wait on Mainnet

523
01:30:37.530 --> 01:30:48.090
Piper Merriam: I think it is a silly idea to just say that we're going to wait on Main Nap if we expect it only to take a short time after main nap. Then I think it is important for clients to have an expectation

524
01:30:48.470 --> 01:30:56.180
Piper Merriam: that the plan is that shortly after goes live on Mainnet that their clients are ready to do the drop there as well

525
01:30:57.000 --> 01:30:58.899
Tim Beiko: Yeah, I think that makes sense. But

526
01:30:59.890 --> 01:31:09.168
Tim Beiko: yeah, we don't necessarily need to have a specific date set. Yet we should have a date for sepulia, and if client teams are

527
01:31:09.800 --> 01:31:16.050
Tim Beiko: you know, are fine. With that we can see how sepulia goes. Analyze it, set a main update after I don't

528
01:31:16.290 --> 01:31:18.970
Tim Beiko: see a major reason why we would want to

529
01:31:19.220 --> 01:31:36.400
Tim Beiko: main that they'd set before we know if sepulia worked and it was a Barnabas has a comment in the chat, saying, like, do we? Can we do this? Before the main net, Petra, for like? Is there a reason to wait to may 1st for sepulia. Aside from everyone being busy right now.

530
01:31:39.500 --> 01:31:54.459
Piper Merriam: I think the main thing for Oppolia is el clients having a release ready that is able to drop the the pre merge history at that time. How much time do clients need for that?

531
01:31:55.932 --> 01:32:03.019
Piper Merriam: Also, we need each 69 finalized before that as well. If I have

532
01:32:03.350 --> 01:32:05.600
Piper Merriam: this correctly sorted in my head.

533
01:32:09.540 --> 01:32:09.860
Tim Beiko: And

534
01:32:09.860 --> 01:32:20.300
Felix: As far as I understand, there's no real need to finalize the E 6, 69 before we drop the history. It's just something that is an optional

535
01:32:20.980 --> 01:32:22.409
Felix: extra kind of.

536
01:32:22.820 --> 01:32:23.530
Felix: So

537
01:32:27.950 --> 01:32:29.090
Felix: also

538
01:32:29.090 --> 01:32:36.160
Barnabas: Click now, like starting from today, whoever is ready can drop it and call. Today. You need to like

539
01:32:36.160 --> 01:32:49.580
Felix: Oh, yeah, I guess so. We're not so in terms of get. For example, we are still very much working on the implementation of it, and we were kind of like working towards that May 1st date. So I would like to see that. You know, we

540
01:32:49.770 --> 01:33:03.830
Felix: have a bit of extra time to actually finish our implementation of it. There is. It's not entirely trivial in the client, I mean, yeah, for some clients, it's easier because they kind of already had this, but we didn't, and we are still

541
01:33:04.170 --> 01:33:08.830
Felix: actively working on making sure the client is fully working

542
01:33:08.960 --> 01:33:11.830
Felix: with some of the blocks removed, and

543
01:33:11.830 --> 01:33:18.399
Barnabas: Question is, could other clients not drop it, though, like starting now in only in support? Yeah, I'm on

544
01:33:18.400 --> 01:33:24.740
Felix: Yeah, I mean, we can't really prevent them to know. I mean, it's literally the status quo, as far as I understand.

545
01:33:24.900 --> 01:33:30.470
Felix: So it's not something that I don't think we can forbid it in some way.

546
01:33:31.650 --> 01:33:39.930
Felix: I mean the main impact this is going to have is just it's going to make it a bit harder to sync these blocks, but as long as it doesn't become impossible, it's fine.

547
01:33:40.640 --> 01:33:53.609
Felix: The main thing with the why we wanted to agree on a date is because it actually may become impossible after this, because if everyone drops it, they're just gone, and then we would have to somehow put them back in.

548
01:33:53.920 --> 01:33:55.480
Felix: which is

549
01:33:55.590 --> 01:34:10.239
Felix: not super easy. So that was the main reason why we wanted to agree on this date. I mean, if we're now going to just go with whatever date. It's also fine. As long as we're reasonably confident there will be some notes that are still kind of serving it for those who really do want to sync it. Now.

550
01:34:13.110 --> 01:34:13.560
marek: So! Oh!

551
01:34:13.560 --> 01:34:17.879
Tim Beiko: Okay. So we only have 3Â min left, like

552
01:34:18.060 --> 01:34:22.040
Tim Beiko: is supposedly on my 1st thing we've agreed to. And

553
01:34:23.970 --> 01:34:28.190
Tim Beiko: in the chat people seem to say, we're on the same page about this

554
01:34:28.840 --> 01:34:34.369
Tim Beiko: like, should that be the latest date for everyone? If we need to hash this out more.

555
01:34:34.520 --> 01:34:42.249
Tim Beiko: then agreeing to May. First, st I feel like we should move this to a separate call or a separate discussion. Forum I'm not sure what the best place is, though

556
01:34:43.700 --> 01:34:52.190
Piper Merriam: There's no strong objections to May. First, st let's say that it's May 1st today, and we can confirm this over the next week. Asynchronously

557
01:34:52.430 --> 01:34:57.460
Tim Beiko: Okay. And where should we document this like, it feels like it would be nice to have something more than just.

558
01:34:57.590 --> 01:35:09.962
Tim Beiko: I'll code of zoom chat to like keep track of the overall plan for how we deploy history expiry. I don't know. If you want to update the eip with this information, or have some like Meta eip or some other spots. But

559
01:35:11.170 --> 01:35:28.991
Tim Beiko: yeah, it would be because infrastructure providers like it's not just client teams. I need to coordinate on this. There are like the users of the nodes, and it would be good to be able to inform them of what the yeah, what the plan is. And yeah, maybe it should be just an informational vip that's added to the Fusaka Meta.

560
01:35:30.040 --> 01:35:32.739
Tim Beiko: But somewhere with this information would be nice.

561
01:35:37.200 --> 01:35:39.610
Tim Beiko: Yeah, Piper, can you take the lead on this?

562
01:35:41.440 --> 01:35:42.900
Tim Beiko: Okay, thank you.

563
01:35:45.050 --> 01:35:52.260
Tim Beiko: we only have 2Â min left. There were like 3 other topics around portal history expiry 869

564
01:35:52.580 --> 01:36:03.990
Tim Beiko: like client and portal issues. I don't think we have sufficient time to cover those. But does anyone want to give a quick shout or share where people can discuss this.

565
01:36:10.420 --> 01:36:21.539
Tim Beiko: Okay? If not, then I could take the last minute. Barnabay and Onskar are launching a protocol research call. Do you guys want to give a quick overview about what this is

566
01:36:22.330 --> 01:36:44.079
BarnabÃ© Monnot: Yeah, I can do that quickly. Thank you for the time. So we're launching this experimental call protocol research call next week. Wednesday at 8 o'clock. The idea of this call is to try and address the why of some of the big questions that ethereum faces, and we hope that it's a place to

567
01:36:44.080 --> 01:36:58.990
BarnabÃ© Monnot: bridge research, core development and the larger community of builders and users as well. So yeah, the 1st call will be on what we want from our nodes on the network. We'll talk about questions like local building. The validator set.

568
01:36:58.990 --> 01:37:05.179
BarnabÃ© Monnot: Yeah, I see, Onsgar has dropped a link to the to the announcement. So yeah, we hope to see as many people there as possible.

569
01:37:07.320 --> 01:37:08.490
Tim Beiko: Nice. Thank you.

570
01:37:09.670 --> 01:37:14.477
Tim Beiko: And with that we're at time. There's 1 last non urgent thing that was on the agenda.

571
01:37:15.188 --> 01:37:28.191
Tim Beiko: andrew brought up that. We need to start thinking of a sepulia replacement for a year or so from now, and we need a name for it. So if you wanna discuss potential name, you can do the one do so on East magicians.

572
01:37:29.180 --> 01:37:52.639
Tim Beiko: and with that we actually covered everything that was on the agenda. Thank you very much. Everyone. I'll make a small Pr to the Meta eip to add. The MoD. Xp precompile we'll wait on Daniel for the larger Pr for the Eof changes, and then yeah, on next week cl, call and the El call. The week. After that we can

573
01:37:53.190 --> 01:37:59.219
Tim Beiko: we can finalize the specs for Fusaka. But yeah, thanks. Everyone.

574
01:38:01.130 --> 01:38:02.110
stokes: Thank you.

575
01:38:02.110 --> 01:38:02.860
Fredrik: Thank you.

576
01:38:02.860 --> 01:38:04.369
Ansgar Dietrichs: Thanks everyone, bye.

577
01:38:04.930 --> 01:38:05.820
Potuz: Bye.

578
01:38:07.210 --> 01:38:08.320
Tomasz StaÅczak: Thank you. Both

579
01:38:08.890 --> 01:38:09.750
Justin Traglia: Hi! Everyone.

580
01:38:09.750 --> 01:38:10.590
Pooja Ranjan: Thank you.

581
01:38:13.260 --> 01:38:13.930
Yoav: Hey!

