00:05:45	nixo:	gm
00:05:52	Mario Vega:	gm
00:05:52	Pierre-Louis Roman | Chainbound:	hello hello
00:05:53	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	gm
00:06:09	Potuz:	gm
00:06:11	Bastin:	gm
00:07:49	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1790
00:09:25	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Blob fees going crazy on hoodi
00:09:42	Potuz:	we could mention the attestation issue
00:10:12	kev and pandaops:	Blob base fee:
379718 wei doesnâ€™t seem that high?
00:11:39	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "Blob base fee:
37971..." 

 I see 0.2759 Gwei on hoodi.blobscan.com
00:13:00	Dustin:	they have to be tied to Fusaka explicitly somehow
00:13:15	stokes:	#execution-dev
00:13:37	nixo:	Replying to "#execution-dev"

https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/688075293562503241/1437751005293973536
00:15:08	Ryan Berckmans:	gm, I'm a guest today to remark on headliner EIPs for Glamsterdam.
00:17:00	kev and pandaops:	Cool let us know as soon as we can start helping! Can we target end of nov?
00:17:20	terence:	dont think the engine api changes need to be the first devnet though
00:17:28	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "gm, I'm a guest toda..."

Are you referring to ePBS and BALs?
00:17:31	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "dont think the engin..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:18:04	Potuz:	Reacted to "dont think the engin..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:18:45	uliana:	Reacted to "dont think the eng..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:18:58	Ryan Berckmans:	Replying to "gm, I'm a guest to..."

I'm here to argue for Glamsterdam to ship ASAP to unlock additional blob scaling ASAP, and therefore for the exclusion of FOCIL from Glamsterdam.
00:20:12	terence:	only headliner or only eip?
00:20:38	soispoke:	Frontrunning the agenda I guess
00:20:42	Potuz:	This is most probably about FOCIL only so probably it could go after discussing all the other EIPs cause FOCIL will surely be a contentious thing that will take over the meeting
00:20:44	Trent:	Replying to "only headliner or on..."

Only CL headliner
00:20:45	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the age..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:20:53	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "This is most probabl..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:54	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the age..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:20:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "This is most probabl..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:03	stokes:	Replying to "This is most probabl..."

You want to cover the others first?
00:21:03	Potuz:	we have a bunch of EIPs to discuss, can we go through them before?
00:21:05	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the ageâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:10	stokes:	Replying to "This is most probabl..."

I could see either way, sequence wise
00:21:11	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "This is most probabl..."

I came for FOCIL and you tell me I have to wait more? No fair!
00:21:12	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "we have a bunch of E..." with â•
00:21:17	lightclient:	Reacted to "This is most probabl..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:19	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the age..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:25	Potuz:	Replying to "This is most probabl..."

I suspect if we open the can of FOCIL we won' t advance at all today, we probably want to do the others first
00:21:28	uliana:	Reacted to "we have a bunch of..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:30	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I suspect if we open..." with â•
00:21:32	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "I suspect if we open..." with â•
00:21:38	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the age..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:50	terence:	Maybe a good starting point to discuss is do we want glamseterdam shipping to be constrained by a deadline?
00:21:56	Francesco:	Whatâ€™s the point of discussing the other EIPs without having made the most consequential decision?
00:22:03	Sophia Gold:	doesn't this depend on the ptc deadline? i haven't checked the spec in a bit: do we currently even get blob scaling?
00:22:07	Ryan Berckmans:	Thank your your time today. Have a good call.
00:22:57	Potuz:	Replying to "Whatâ€™s the point of ..."

all the other EIPs are kinda irrelevant with respect to adding or not FOCIL
00:22:58	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Thank your your time..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:03	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "I suspect if we openâ€¦" with â•
00:23:46	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "doesn't this depen..."

just to be clear, i like a 4s ptc deadline for the extra proving time
00:24:05	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the age..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:26:08	Potuz:	Replying to "doesn't this depend ..."

I think there' s broad consensus on dual deadlines and on setting the deadlines later at testing time
00:26:18	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "I think there' s b..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:31	Potuz:	Replying to "doesn't this depend ..."

at any rate we will have dual deadlines in the spec and the option to set them at the same time if needed
00:26:35	Jihoon:	Reacted to "Frontrunning the age..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:27:44	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "doesn't this depen..."

if people aren't concerned about the free option, obviously dual deadline is best
00:27:55	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Whatâ€™s the point of ..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:26	kev and pandaops:	2w sounds very optimistic. IMO we can barely do engineAPI changes in 2w cadence even when it doesnâ€™t touch more than one EIP.
00:29:14	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "2w sounds very optim..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:29:16	NC:	Replying to "2w sounds very optimâ€¦"
I think we are only speaking about engineering effort
00:30:07	Potuz:	Replying to "doesn't this depend ..."

we are concerned, so we want to set them as soon as possible given the blob count, and presumably do something similar with the payload depending on gas limit or payload size for example
00:30:23	Trent:	Reacted to "2w sounds very optim..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:30:53	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "2w sounds very optim..."

Yeah but thatâ€™s usually not compressed in one stretch and often interlaced with PR reviews and getting input from a wider range of audiences. Barely any EIP can be done in a 2w timeline extension to the overall fork tbh, let alone a big one.
00:31:48	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "we are concerned, ..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:26	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "doesn't this depen..."

i see. i know it was suggested to have them be dynamic but didn't know that was being seriously considered
00:33:54	NC:	Replying to "2w sounds very optimâ€¦"
@kev and pandaops yea I understand, thereâ€™s additional effort for spec writing and reviewing. I think the 2 weeks refers to additional time spent provided epbs and focil are implemented, and the related spec and test infrastructure is ready
00:34:22	Potuz:	Replying to "doesn't this depend ..."

it doesn't need to be in Glamsterdam and it is not a hardfork so it's easy to test and implement after the fork
00:34:54	Potuz:	Replying to "doesn't this depend ..."

having the deadline be dependent on the payload size or the number of KZG commitments is trivial to implement and ship, probably harder to test and set the right parameters
00:35:00	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "@kev and pandaops ye..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:35:29	Potuz:	Replying to "doesn't this depend ..."

but anyway is also trivially gameable for a builder that wants to exercise the free option so it's not a solution at all
00:35:41	Dustin:	Reacted to "2w sounds very opt..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:36:12	Anders Elowsson:	Whatâ€™s the complexity diff on 8061 vs 8071? Purely from a dev perspective, ignoring the weak subjectivity analysis.
00:37:10	soispoke:	Ok so summary for FOCIL:
3 teams explicitly want to SFI it
2 teams expressed conditional support (as in support with caveats, mainly around fork complexity and timelines) 
1 team would rather DFI it
00:37:15	Potuz:	8061 is a bit more complex, 8071's changes are localized it should be much simpler to deploy and test
00:37:19	Dustin:	Replying to "2w sounds very opt..."

So if FOCIL has already implemented, then it takes 2 weeks, that's the intent? I think the idea is, from a baseline of no FOCIL
00:37:23	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	RIG view: https://notes.ethereum.org/@css/rig-glamsterdam
00:37:27	Dustin:	Replying to "2w sounds very opt..."

Because that's the alternative
00:37:35	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Should we add tweets to the record? https://x.com/barnabemonnot/status/1988202114657505428
00:37:45	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-13 at 09.18.50.png" with ğŸ‘
00:37:46	Jihoon:	Reacted to "Ok so summary for FO..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:48	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Ok so summary for ..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:54	terence:	Replying to "2w sounds very optim..."

FOCIL on top of fulu is different than FOCIL on top of epbs too
00:37:55	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "Whatâ€™s the complexit..."

8071 is basically just if >2048 dont allow consolidation
00:37:56	Francesco:	Replying to "8061 is a bit more c..."

Itâ€™s also much less useful
00:38:14	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s also much less ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:20	Sophia Gold:	Can we discuss whether we think we can credibly commit to scheduling FOCIL for the H fork?
00:38:26	Potuz:	Replying to "8061 is a bit more c..."

yeah my preference is 8061
00:38:35	Dustin:	Replying to "2w sounds very opt..."

Yeah, has it been rebased yet?
00:38:39	Dustin:	Replying to "2w sounds very opt..."

It's not real until it has
00:38:44	soispoke:	Replying to "Should we add tweets..."

https://x.com/soispoke/status/1988250897437052934?s=20
00:38:46	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s also much less ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:59	Trent:	Will the testing and panda teams give their perspective on complexity of SFIing FOCIL?
00:39:05	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Will the testing and..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:07	Potuz:	Replying to "8061 is a bit more c..."

I think 8071 is the worst of both worlds: we not only don't use the consolidation churn for useful things like exits, but also make exits worst for everyone
00:39:12	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Will the testing and..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:24	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "2w sounds very optim..."

+1 I think weâ€™re realistically talking about a fork 3-6mos later if we add focil in vs not.
00:39:44	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "2w sounds very optim..."

And this is optimistic, assuming specs donâ€™t churn much
00:40:02	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Can we discuss whe..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:19	terence:	Replying to "2w sounds very optim..."

I think adding focil pushes the mainnet date to end of next year, so it's more important to discuss whether time line is a constraint. If we agree it's not then let's add focil
00:40:21	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "Yeah, has it been reâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:40:26	Mario Vega:	EIP-7805 EL spec testing complexity assessment here: https://github.com/ethsteel/pm/blob/main/complexity_assessments/EIPs/EIP-7805.md#checklist 
Tldr, not the end of the world but complexity mid/high nonetheless. This plus BAL + Gas repricing is way too high compounded complexity in our opinion.
00:40:30	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Ok so summary for FO..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:39	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot 2025-11-13 at 09.18.50.png" with ğŸ‘
00:40:41	Dustin:	Replying to "2w sounds very opt..."

Yeah, this is our position
00:40:42	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "EIP-7805 EL spec tes..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:48	kev and pandaops:	IMO we shouldnâ€™t include focil because of fear. We should include it because itâ€™s a good feature and we need it. If we do, then we need to accept that theres a chance of no fork in 2026.
00:40:49	Dustin:	Reacted to "I think adding foc..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:51	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "I think adding focil..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:07	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to IMO we shouldnâ€™t inc... with "ğŸ‘"
00:41:14	Trent:	Reacted to "EIP-7805 EL spec tes..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:19	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t inc..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:19	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t inc..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:21	nixo:	i will say a wallet dev and andrew coathup chimed in on community feedback (in addition to the already-mentioned stakers union): https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/community-feedback-on-non-headlining-features-in-glamsterdam/26410 

on the CL side: support for 8045, 8062, 8068 on a B-tier

support for pushing FOCIL to Heka from abc, with strong support for it in Glammy from Stakers Union. Wallet dev only had an opinion on an EL EIP

(no need to speak, pretty straightforward)
00:41:40	Trent:	Reacted to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t inc..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:42	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-11..."

8062 is an unfair penalty for 0x01 validators, while 8068 gives sound incentives to switch from 0x01 to 0x02, why is 8062 considered a better choice?
00:41:51	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "EIP-7805 EL spec tes..."

â€œThis analysis has only been done for execution layer clients. The impact on CL clients will be much greater.â€
00:41:56	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t incâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:42:11	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "â€œThis analysis has o..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:42:37	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "[Full message cannot be displayed on this version]" 

 0x1 cost resources (e.g. data and compute) but don't pay for it.
00:42:45	Francesco:	I donâ€™t think itâ€™s as black and white as â€œif we donâ€™t SFI FOCIL weâ€™re saying that fork cadence is the only thing that mattersâ€
00:42:49	NC:	Replying to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t incâ€¦"
If we want epbs, focil, 6s slot by the end of next year, then how does epbs + focil alone already take the whole year? Or we just do epbs + 6s slot by end of next year?
00:42:56	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s aâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:43:00	uliana:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think it..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:07	Trent:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s a..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:19	NC:	Reacted to "Ok so summary for FOâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:43:24	soispoke:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s a..."

Itâ€™s the main argument though, everyone seems to agree FOCIL is important as a feature in itself
00:43:43	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-11-13 at 09.18.50.png"

8062 is not necessarily unfair given that 0x02 already pay substantially for their withdrawals and that 0x01 skim withdrawals also cost resources which are not paid for. 8068 would be nice but we argue that we can try to compensate by doing 8062 a bit stronger to get a simpler change cover for both.
00:43:45	soispoke:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s a..."

So if itâ€™s not about the feature itself itâ€™s about fork complexity or fork cadence
00:43:50	NC:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s aâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:43:59	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t inc..."

I think we can do bal + epbs -> June/aug. 6s + focil -> jan/march realistically.
00:44:08	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-11..."

Do 0x02 pay for skimming beyond 2048?
00:44:18	Trent:	Can some of the testing or panda team speak on audio, not chat?
00:44:19	Francesco:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s a..."

Many things are important, doesnâ€™t mean we should do them all at once
00:44:24	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "IMO we shouldnâ€™t inc..."

Doing all: bal/epbs/6s/focil in 2026 is a pipe dream if weâ€™re being honest with ourselves.
00:44:27	Mehdi Aouadi:	FOCIL in H fork with 6s slots will present the same issue we have today with ePBS
00:44:43	Potuz:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

yeah this is my main fear of delaying FOCIL
00:44:43	Stefan Bratanov:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:48	lightclient:	Every fork adds risk too
00:44:50	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:52	felix (eest):	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork wi..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:52	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "yeah this is my main..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:53	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:55	NC:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork withâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:45:05	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:06	soispoke:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:08	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "yeah this is my main..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:10	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-11-13 at 09.18.50.png"

No I was referring to partial withdrawals
00:45:11	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Doing all: bal/epbs/..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:12	soispoke:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

exactly
00:45:52	lightclient:	Itâ€™s just not possible to make commitments that far in advance
00:45:58	soispoke:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s a..."

Sure, I donâ€™t think this contradicts what I said
00:45:59	lightclient:	We donâ€™t know what weâ€™ll need to do in 18 months
00:46:05	Potuz:	We are doing exactly that: we are doing N+2 right now before shipping N+1
00:46:06	cayman:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:12	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "yeah this is my main..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:14	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	CR is important and focil, giving us better inclusion guarantees, is a strong proposal but I'd be against making the fork larger at this point, recognizing that ePBS is already big enough.
I don't think we should commit to anything re h* today/soon.
00:46:15	soispoke:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s just not possib..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:50	NC:	Replying to "CR is important and â€¦"
Focil will be the new verkle or eof thatâ€™s what people fear I think
00:47:00	kasey:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

However focil and epbs both include changes to fork choice / STF and  new messages/topics as Dustin highlighted. So there are more possibilities for testing interactions between focil and ebps; 6s and focil seem more orthogonal to each other.
00:47:01	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "CR is important and ..." 

 No i don't think so
00:47:18	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "FOCIL in H fork with..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:23	Justins iPhone:	i dont want to repeat the same mistakes as EOF either
00:47:27	Lodestar Team:	Replying to "We are doing exactly..."

We say that with N being Fusaka, so we mean having guarantees for Heka today also for say, FOCIL
00:47:47	satushh:	Reacted to "CR is important an..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:58	Dustin:	Replying to "CR is important an..."

If one abstracts from "Verkle" to "statelessness", statelessness just evolved
00:48:01	Potuz:	Replying to "We are doing exactly..."

oh so you want to plan the next 3 forks? good luck with that, we can barely scope the next one
00:48:07	Francesco:	Reacted to "If one abstracts fro..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:07	lightclient:	Reacted to "If one abstracts fro..." with ğŸ”¥
00:48:08	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "yeah this is my mainâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:48:12	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "oh so you want to pl..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:48:22	cayman:	Reacted to "We donâ€™t know what w..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:31	NC:	Reacted to "i dont want to repeaâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:48:38	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "If one abstracts fro..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:40	Lodestar Team:	Replying to "We are doing exactly..."

Yes we have been poor at those commitments historically
00:48:41	Francesco:	Replying to "CR is important and ..."

Strong agree, the equivalent here would be if we just decided that we want to do something different than focil (but with the same goal), which would be fine
00:48:45	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-11..."

Yep so the same resource (auto sweeping algo) is charged for 0x01 but not for 0x02, this is an asymmetry, which I can not see how can be rationalized.

This hurts trust-minimized permissionless staking such as Lido CSM and Rocket Pool, which rely on 0x01 (fixed bond requirement)
00:48:46	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "CR is important and ..."

@Dustin but shipped is better than perfect ;)
00:48:48	Stefan Bratanov:	Replying to "We are doing exactly..."

We can also ship just FOCIL in H* relatively quickly after ePBS, and leave 6s for I*
00:48:56	Trent:	Reacted to "If one abstracts fro..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:01	Francesco:	Replying to "CR is important and ..."

Plus donâ€™t get the verkle argument anyway because the complexity compared to focil is way different
00:49:02	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "@Dustin but shipped ..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Personally, seeing how passionate everyone here is about FOCIL, I donâ€™t worry at all that delaying it would risk us never shipping it (or some future variant).

Ironically I would be much more in favor of shipping it now if there was less enthusiastic support for it (because that would make me worried for the future otherwise)
00:49:05	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "If one abstracts fro..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:05	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "CR is important and ..." 

 Completely separate things and yeah, if we have an even better CR solution in 6 month, good. I don't think that will be the case. FOCIL is the result of years of research and it feels like the design space has been explored with FOCIL being the best we got to.
00:49:15	stokes:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:20	Potuz:	Replying to "We are doing exactly..."

that would be my preference for sure, probably no chance of that happening though
00:49:24	Francesco:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to If one abstracts fro... with "ğŸ‘"
00:49:27	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:28	Simon (@siladu) | Besu:	Reacted to "We can also ship jus..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:29	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ¤”
00:49:35	soispoke:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ¤”
00:49:52	Dustin:	EOF had a different issue: to brutally shortly and subjectively summarize a long debate, it was a victim of did people even want it. And that doesn't seem likely for FOCIL. it's a qualitatively new feature set
00:49:57	Åukasz Rozmej:	There is always new shiny thingâ€¦.
00:49:59	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:02	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:04	soispoke:	Replying to "Personally, seeing h..."

Ship things people are not enthusiastic about is also a bit odd but I think I see what you mean
00:50:10	stokes:	Its different bc of how core it is to atheneumâ€™s values
00:50:14	vitalik:	I have one thing to say (sorry hand raise not working in browser)
00:50:23	stokes:	Replying to "Its different bc of ..."

ethereum
00:50:28	Willâ€™s iPhone:	Reacted to "I have one thing to â€¦" with â¤ï¸
00:50:39	stokes:	Replying to "I have one thing to ..."

After lodestar!
00:50:40	kingy_sigp:	if the inertia here is FOCIL to Heka - that changes our appetite for some of the other EIPs. Generally, we're in favour of more targeted, shorter cadence hardforks - but acknowledge there is widespread community support for FOCIL
00:50:40	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "CR is important and ..."

We have FOCILR in EIP-8046 which extends on FOCIL. FOCILR offers strong censorship resistance. But that extension means we still benefit from shipping FOCIL first.

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8046
00:50:50	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Personally, seeing h..." 

 Complexity piles up though. No matter how enthusiastic we are
00:51:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Complexity piles up ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:51:44	kev and pandaops:	We do also want to mention that 6s slots and focil tend to touch different parts of the system. This feature is not true if we ship focil/epbs/bals. Thereâ€™s always overlap ofc, but focil and 6s are relatively separate features.
00:52:07	Ben Edgington:	Fwiw, committing to headliners 2-3 forks out seems fine to me.
00:52:15	stokes:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:16	Trent:	this group chose ePBS as a priority. There are complexity consequences to decisions, and we simply cannot do everything desirable in the same fork
00:52:21	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:23	Willâ€™s iPhone:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:52:30	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "this group chose ePB..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:52:33	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to this group chose ePB... with "ğŸ‘ğŸ½"
00:52:37	Mehdi Aouadi:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

Not sure 6s slots and FOCIL are orthogonal since focil is time sensitive. IMO there will be some design/timing challenges to keep focil reliable. And yes, FOCIL will probably delay the fork (be it because of the testing complexity or the protocol design) but anyway, a 6 months fork is already not possible even with ePBS alone
00:52:37	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "this group chose ePBâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:52:38	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

but most of the client teams just said they can
00:52:46	felix (eest):	Reacted to "but most of the cl..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:50	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing h..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:51	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

I see it as a positive problem! Weâ€™re all so enthusiastic about improving etheruem ğŸ™‚ we just gotta temper expectations a bit sometimes.
00:53:04	NC:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:53:04	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "this group chose ePB..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:53:13	Ben Edgington:	Replying to "Fwiw, committing to ..."

Doing frequent upgrades de-risks this and increases certainty.
00:53:15	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

@Justin Florentine (Besu) well depends on the timeline, if were fine with no fork in 2026 - sure
00:53:18	cayman:	Reacted to "but most of the clie..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:19	Potuz:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

"They can" there's nuances to that
00:53:23	Dustin:	Reacted to "Personally, seeing..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:24	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:27	Trent:	Reacted to ""They can" there's n..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:38	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

and those nuances are being ignored in this conversation
00:53:55	Francesco:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

There was a â€œwe can do it allâ€ moment circa May 2024 ğŸ˜†
00:53:56	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

The difference is that 6s slots is not a moving target, once we decide its 6s - thereâ€™s a design consideration that can be taken as truth
00:53:57	Dustin:	Reacted to "this group chose e..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:54:00	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

This is not true for most other EIPs
00:54:01	Potuz:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

we definitely can, and my preference would be to commit to shipping it, but admitting that we don't care more about fork cadence than fork content
00:54:11	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

It would ofc be a problem if we didnâ€™t know if we wanted 6s Or 4s or whatever
00:54:13	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

But that isnâ€™t the case
00:54:15	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "we definitely can, a..." with ğŸ’¯
00:54:22	Trent:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

Testing and pandaOps are pointing out the complexity risk beyond timeline. Multiple client teams have pointed out the risk
00:54:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

there is always risks, and some are acceptable
00:54:39	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Testing and pandaOps..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:54:59	Potuz:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

I think Pari is right re: testing ePBS+FOCIL, I think he's wrong re: testing 6s + FOCIL
00:55:00	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "this group chose ePB..."

Well there risk is also that we ship none of the other glamsterdam benefits in 2026, is that risk worth it? - im not sure.
00:55:12	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "I think Pari is righ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:55:16	cayman:	Reacted to "we definitely can, a..." with ğŸ’¯
00:55:30	Dustin:	Reacted to "Testing and pandaO..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:56:14	vitalik:	I agree with "fast glam is good" from a decentralization/CR perspective
00:56:19	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "There was a â€œwe can ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:56:36	Potuz:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

@Mehdi AouadiÂ exactly, I think this is the main mistake pandaOps is making in their estimates
00:56:39	Trent:	Reacted to "I agree with "fast g..." with ğŸ‘
00:56:41	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I agree with "fast g... with "ğŸ‘"
00:56:52	vitalik:	because BAL + zkevm unlocks super efficient full nodes
00:56:57	Potuz:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

I very much contest the concept that testing with ePBS will be more complicated than with 6s
00:57:06	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "I agree with "fast g..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:06	uliana:	Reacted to "because BAL + zkev..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:08	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "because BAL + zkevm ..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:09	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "this group chose ePBâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:57:10	NC:	Reacted to "I very much contest â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:57:21	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "I very much contest ..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:23	Potuz:	Even if our commitments aren't "credible", why can't we at least make them?
00:57:27	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "because BAL + zkevm ..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:28	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "this group chose ePB..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:57:39	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Even if our commitme..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:41	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Even if our commitme..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:53	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Even if our commitmeâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:57:56	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "Even if our commit..."

i think we need to say what we will actually do, different from past commitments, to ensure this one happens
00:57:57	soispoke:	I donâ€™t think we have a credible way to commit to it, the best way to commit to it is to ship it in Glamsterdam
00:58:04	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "FOCIL in H fork with..."

Our claim is based on the thought that epbs will still undergo changes  (so far this has proven true). 6s slots mostly has fixed constraints that can be taken as true for FOCIL specs.
00:58:09	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "i think we need to s..." with ğŸ¤
00:58:17	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Even if our commitme..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:20	Potuz:	Replying to "Even if our commitme..."

every single fork since I arrived to Ethereum we said "we will do Verkle next"
00:58:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we can't do that thing again, where research vetoes client teams and then we promise to tweak the process to address in the future.
00:58:55	Trent:	Context changes
Tech changes
00:58:56	Lodestar Team:	Reacted to "we can't do that thi..." with ğŸ™
00:59:05	kasey:	Reacted to "Our claim is based o..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:10	Potuz:	Replying to "Even if our commitme..."

the very same thing was said many times to Verkle
00:59:10	kingy_sigp:	SFI FOCIL for heka sounds appropriate
00:59:10	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "we can't do that thi..."

I mean the team pushing for focil is a research team itself...
00:59:11	nixo:	i think we should take a week or two to think about how to credibly commit. 
and also, CFI seems more appropriate than SFI to me
00:59:28	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to SFI FOCIL for heka s... with "ğŸ‘"
00:59:30	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "SFI FOCIL for heka s..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:32	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "SFI FOCIL for heka s..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:34	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "SFI FOCIL for heka s..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:36	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:59:37	Potuz:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:59:42	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:42	dionysuz.eth:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:57	Francesco:	Replying to "we can't do that thi..."

Not only that, but there are non-research teams pointing out the same things? Pandaops, testing, some client teams even
01:00:09	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "SFI FOCIL for heka..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:11	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Not only that, but t..." with ğŸ’¯
01:00:14	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:00:14	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Not only that, but t..." with ğŸ’¯
01:00:27	Francesco:	Replying to "we can't do that thi..."

I donâ€™t think itâ€™s healthy to put everything in terms of research vs development or something like that
01:00:29	soispoke:	Glam > SFI > CFI > softer commitment
01:00:30	Trent:	Reacted to "I mean the team push..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:34	Trent:	Reacted to "Not only that, but t..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:38	Trent:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s h..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:40	Willâ€™s iPhone:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s hâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:00:42	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s h..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:45	cayman:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:46	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Not only that, but t..." with ğŸ‘
01:00:48	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "I mean the team push..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:01	NC:	Replying to "i think we should taâ€¦"
Epbs didnâ€™t get cfiâ€™ed and sfiâ€™ed later on. It got sfiâ€™ed right off the bat
01:01:03	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "we can't do that thi..."

yes, the client teams are point out the complexity as well, and yet still think it should be included or are neutral on the matter
01:01:04	cayman:	Reacted to "Glam > SFI > CFI > s..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:13	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "However focil and ..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:19	danceratopz:	Reacted to "i think we should ta..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:26	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "every single fork ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:01:31	nixo:	SFI is strong but it skips the point of CFI -> SFI for signalling purposes
01:01:35	soispoke:	But people were involved for Glamsterdam already...
01:01:42	soispoke:	And they clearly expressed support
01:01:50	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "youâ€™re muted potuz"

my bad
01:01:50	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "I very much contes..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:53	cayman:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s h..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:00	Sophia Gold:	why not have the H headliner discussion now? we need to pipeline work on 6s slots too
01:02:03	nixo:	agree with potuz - we skip the headliner process, which doesnâ€™t feel fair to anyone whoâ€™s not at this call and expects the Heka headliner process to kick off later
01:02:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	it's kinda wild to just make up a new process feature on the fly. i think planning +2 is great, but we should actually plan out how that will work.
01:02:17	Stefan Bratanov:	Reacted to "agree with potuz - w..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:21	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "agree with potuz - w..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:22	nixo:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with â•
01:02:25	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "agree with potuz - w..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:25	Potuz:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:02:26	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "agree with potuz - w..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:27	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:28	satushh:	Reacted to "agree with potuz -..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:31	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with â•
01:02:32	Trent:	Replying to "why not have the H h..."

Lots to pack into a 90min call
01:02:34	Francesco:	Replying to "we can't do that thi..."

Also just want to point out that the headliner of this fork is epbs ğŸ˜„ Famously the favourite EIP of the research team
01:02:36	Dustin:	Replying to "agree with potuz -..."

This is the first time the process has been used at all; it's subject to change
01:02:45	stokes:	Replying to "it's kinda wild to j..."

Yeah I think we should take another call cycle
01:02:47	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to jâ€¦" with â•
01:02:48	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:02:50	cayman:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with â•
01:02:52	Potuz:	Replying to "we can't do that thi..."

lol
01:02:54	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:02:55	stokes:	Replying to "it's kinda wild to j..."

Agree we donâ€™t need to yolo something right now
01:02:55	Trent:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:02:55	Jihoon:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:02:56	nixo:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:02:57	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:02:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:02:58	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:00	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with â•
01:03:01	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:02	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:03	nixo:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:03	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:03	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "agree with potuz - w..."

We should at least take a moment to discuss the best next steps here. But imo the discussion is going in the right direction, how do we allocate scarce client and testing resources well
01:03:05	Dustin:	Replying to "agree with potuz -..."

It's intrinsically incompatible to ask for n+2, n+3, etc commitments, for example
01:03:09	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:09	uliana:	Reacted to "We should at least..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:11	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "agree with potuz - wâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:03:14	Ulysse Pavloff:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to j..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:14	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:03:14	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:03:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s h..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:29	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Also just want to po..." with ğŸ˜…
01:03:31	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:03:34	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "agree with potuz - w..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:44	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Also just want to poâ€¦" with ğŸ˜…
01:03:44	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Tbf, the community is not ignored here. They were loudest about ePBS and they were heard.
01:03:55	Potuz:	Replying to "it's kinda wild to j..."

Yes, this should be clear anyway
01:04:01	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "it's kinda wild to..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:08	Potuz:	Replying to "it's kinda wild to j..."

we can't make such a decision today, except include or not in Glamsterdam perhaps
01:04:10	Stefan Bratanov:	We mentioned multiple times that we want faster forks, it would be a good practice to have a quick H* fork with FOCIL as a headliner
01:04:28	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "We mentioned multipl..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:36	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to We mentioned multipl... with "â¤ï¸"
01:04:41	soispoke:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

I mean right now just speaking of client teams: 
3 teams explicitly want to SFI it for Glam
2 teams expressed conditional support (as in support with caveats, mainly around fork complexity and timelines) 
1 team would rather DFI it
01:04:47	NC:	Replying to "We mentioned multiplâ€¦"
Are you suggesting no 6s slot in H star?
01:04:57	Potuz:	Reacted to "We mentioned multipl..." with â¤ï¸
01:04:58	soispoke:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

How many times do we have to get feedback before we SFI something
01:05:03	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I mean right now jus..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:04	kev and pandaops:	Yeah agreed, FOCIL taken as a given main EIP for H star makes sense to us. Gives the credibility to the focil team, while still leaving scope open for a traditional headliner process for Hstar.
01:05:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:05:09	Potuz:	Replying to "We mentioned multipl..."

That would be my headliner for H for sure
01:05:11	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	One thing that happens with DFIâ€™ing FOCIL is we have much more space for doing some of the preliminary work on 6s slots that is analytics/testing heavy. Just much better use of pipelined resources imo
01:05:11	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "We mentioned multipl..." with â¤ï¸
01:05:20	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We mentioned multipl..." with â¤ï¸
01:05:20	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to How many times do we... with "â•"
01:05:22	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "We mentioned multipl..."

Mine too!
01:05:24	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Yeah agreed, FOCIL t..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:25	Francesco:	Replying to "We mentioned multipl..."

This doesnâ€™t just depend on the CL to be fair, the EL independently has important things to do that will impact how H* is scheduled
01:05:28	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Yeah agreed, FOCIL t..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:37	Potuz:	Replying to "We mentioned multipl..."

Sure
01:05:37	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think it..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:44	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

broader community was very supportive of focil for G* when we chose ePBS too.
01:05:48	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "Yeah agreed, FOCIL..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:50	cayman:	Reacted to "I mean right now jus..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:50	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "Also just want to ..." with ğŸ˜…
01:05:51	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "lol" with â¤ï¸
01:05:54	Stefan Bratanov:	Replying to "We mentioned multipl..."

Yes, 6s in I
01:05:58	soispoke:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

yes
01:06:04	danceratopz:	Reacted to "We mentioned multipl..." with â¤ï¸
01:06:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I mean right now jus..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:23	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "How many times do we..." with â•
01:06:35	Stefan Bratanov:	Reacted to "This doesnâ€™t just de..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:41	kingy_sigp:	if we're delaying focil we can reconsider 7688 and 8045 that seem to have support from other CL teams
01:06:46	Trent:	The broader community does not have the same levels of context and does not bear the responsibility of testing and troubleshooting

And ultimately would not have the burden of dealing with mainnet issues should they arise
01:06:57	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Moving ahead with scoping other EIPs is tricky without having a decision on FOCIL?
01:07:12	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to The broader communit... with "ğŸ’¯"
01:07:15	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

right, the client teams do.
01:07:21	soispoke:	Reacted to "right, the client te..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:27	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "right, the client te..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:27	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "right, the client te..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:29	Trent:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

Client teams are bad at overcommitting
01:07:31	soispoke:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

And both the community and the client teams agree
01:07:33	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..." 

 It's not only client teams that are busy with forks
01:07:41	NC:	Replying to "Tbf, the community iâ€¦"
@Trent then this fact needs to be communicated well to the public and see if they change their mind
01:08:23	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "if we're delaying ..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:41	Trent:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

The community delegates stewardship responsibility to core devs who work on this stuff full time. in most cases, they necessarily do not have the capacity to make informed decisions
01:08:48	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..." 

 I'm not against focil. I'm just not a fan of shipping a big fork, having seen how complex ePBS by itself is.
01:09:09	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "I'm not against foci..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:09:12	Stefan Bratanov:	Reacted to "I'm not against foci..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:09:27	Potuz:	I really think those EIPs won't change at all the landscape re:consolidations
01:09:42	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	tldr: Drop 8068 in favor of a higher fee in 8062 (much better tradeoff re complexity/goal)
01:09:44	soispoke:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

@Trent so who is the voice of reason then if itâ€™s neither the community or core devs
01:09:52	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "@Trent so who is the..." with ğŸ˜…
01:10:00	felix (eest):	Reacted to "@Trent so who is t..." with ğŸ˜…
01:10:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "@Trent so who is the..." with ğŸ˜…
01:10:11	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I'm not against fociâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:10:19	Dustin:	Reacted to "I really think tho..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:44	Dustin:	Reacted to "I'm not against fo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:10:51	lightclient:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

Pandas?
01:10:56	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ˜‚
01:11:02	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ¼
01:11:03	lightclient:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

dont laugh
01:11:03	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Pandas? with "ğŸ¼"
01:11:04	soispoke:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

Haha ok fair enough
01:11:14	NC:	I feel like having a maintenance hard fork to adjust consolidation and make every mechanism in the protocol is used as intended would be nice
01:11:18	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Pandas? with "ğŸ¼"
01:11:24	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ¼
01:11:28	Trent:	I should have been more specific

Core contributors broadly (not just â€œdevsâ€), and client teams specifically overcommit

Tim and stokes tried to caution what happened in pectra. Pandas and testing are strongly cautioning against FOCIL in glam
01:11:42	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ¼
01:11:45	Joshua Rudolf:	Reacted to "Fwiw, committing to â€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:11:48	Trent:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ¼
01:11:55	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

"pandas" is at least a reasonable answer, but i'm not convinced they think it's impossible for G*
01:12:01	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ¼
01:12:04	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "I really think those..."

The fee gives us a lever to lean into even more in the future. Say we start with fair fee (resource consumption wise) and itâ€™s not sufficient, we can then decide to be more explicit and increase fee to very explicitly incentivize switching to 0x02 vals
01:12:09	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

Nothing is impossible, some things are unreasonable
01:12:33	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

We donâ€™t think itâ€™s impossible, we think it comes with the risk of no fork in 2026 + higher complexity. itâ€™s definitely possible given time.
01:12:34	Trent:	Reacted to "Nothing is impossibl..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:37	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Nothing is impossibl..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:46	terence:	what about centralized exchanges
01:12:54	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "Screenshot 2025-11..."

If the goal is to switch to 0x02, then just incentivize switching (8068), penalizing 0x01 does not seem fair. 

It should be okay to have some validators of type 0x01 (by choice or necessity) don't see why they should pay a penalty for that
01:13:33	Francesco:	They can just switch though
01:13:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

right, and THATs what we're not talking about, the prioritizing of fork cadence over fork content.
01:13:46	Francesco:	If we provide incentives to consolidate, itâ€™s not fair to 0x01 then
01:14:00	Potuz:	Replying to "If we provide incent..."

yes I don't think we need to provde these incentives either
01:14:02	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "right, and THATs wha..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:14:12	Francesco:	Thatâ€™s great to hear ğŸ™‚
01:14:45	Francesco:	Replying to "Thatâ€™s great to hear..."

This is not great to hear ğŸ˜…
01:15:22	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..." 

 Imo, even if we delay, we still risk piling up too much complexity with only a few ppl remaining deeply understanding the protocol.
01:15:29	Francesco:	90% consolidation would still mean 100k+ validators just for the remaining 10%, so a small minority would be putting a huge burden on the network
01:16:07	NC:	Reacted to "right, and THATs whaâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:16:25	NC:	Replying to "Tbf, the community iâ€¦"
@Justin Florentine (Besu) definitely a fine balance between the two
01:16:35	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..." 

 Like even if we delay until 2027, I'm not convinced it'll be an easy fork, just because it will still be big.
01:17:08	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Like even if we dela..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:17:09	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "right, and THATs wha..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:17:13	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "90% consolidation wo..." with ğŸ‘
01:17:14	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

i thought ethereum was supposed to be more ambitious
01:17:35	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Tbf, the community i..."

(j/k i know ambition is just price coded)
01:17:39	Greg K | Lido:	Replying to "If we provide ince..."

This is why I said "if we want to provide incentives, then ... ". 

Btw effective balance definition in 8068 is much more reasonable than the current one anyways imho
01:17:43	terence:	lol
01:17:49	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "If the goal is to ..." with ğŸ’¯
01:18:00	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "lol" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:03	kingy_sigp:	I think we need another cycle if FOCIL is being delayed. That's a big change to what we had planned internally.
01:18:06	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "lol" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:07	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "lol" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:08	lightclient:	It seems like too much contention to accept FOCIL?
01:18:13	kev and pandaops:	Glad to play the classics of potuz and bbusa disagreeing
01:18:14	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "lol" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:17	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Glad to play the c..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:19	Willâ€™s iPhone:	Reacted to "Glad to play the claâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:20	lightclient:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ”¥
01:18:24	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with â¤ï¸
01:18:25	nixo:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:26	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ”¥
01:18:27	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:29	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to Glad to play the cla... with "ğŸ˜‚"
01:18:33	terence:	Replying to "Glad to play the cla..."

need a polymarket for this next time
01:18:38	NC:	Reacted to "(j/k i know ambitionâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:40	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "Glad to play the cla..."

I miss the good old days (barnabas)
01:18:42	satushh:	Reacted to "lol" with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:45	Pelle Krabbenhoeft:	Reacted to "need a polymarket foâ€¦" with â¤ï¸
01:18:50	Potuz:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:59	Potuz:	Reacted to "I miss the good old ..." with ğŸ¤£
01:19:11	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with â¤ï¸
01:19:14	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:19:38	danceratopz:	Reacted to "Pandas?" with ğŸ¼
01:19:57	hangleang:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:20:05	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Glad to play the cla..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:20:23	Francesco:	Note about that is that if we really care about that issue we could also replace 71 with the churn sharing mechanic
01:20:27	Sophia Gold:	if we're giving it another call, perhaps pandaops or others can come back with a proposal for structure of early work for both FOCIL and 6s slots to increase their likelihood of shipping on time
01:20:32	Francesco:	Replying to "Note about that is t..."

(Without everything else that 61 does)
01:20:32	NC:	Replying to "It seems like too muâ€¦"
Because we donâ€™t have a way to express credible commitment in H* that that crowd agree
01:21:11	Francesco:	Replying to "Note about that is t..."

Agree with potuz that the preferable thing to do is the 61 mechanic, at least we make better use of the churn
01:21:18	soispoke:	Reacted to "Because we donâ€™t hav..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:21	terence:	is there a consensus spec PR for 8061?
01:21:55	Potuz:	yes that thing is the simplest change I can actually think about
01:22:08	Potuz:	cause then it's strictly better than 8071
01:22:10	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "is there a consensus..."

Not that Iâ€™m aware of .
01:22:22	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "(j/k i know ambition..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:23:17	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "It seems like too mu..."

Not sure the credible commitment is a need-to-have to DFI focil. It is a nice-to-have for fork planning tho
01:23:21	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "90% consolidation wo..." with ğŸ‘
01:24:50	kev and pandaops:	If there is a mass slashing event on mainnet, it would be very good to have this.
01:24:54	Francesco:	Replying to "yes that thing is th..."

Assuming this was about the churn sharing thing, I could discuss with Mikhail to replace 8071 with it if people feel that itâ€™s a better solution for that problem in isolation
01:24:56	stokes:	Replying to "If there is a mass s..."

Thatâ€™s true
01:25:07	Francesco:	Replying to "yes that thing is th..."

So we could more easily make that decision separately from the churn limit stuff
01:25:55	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "It seems like too mu..."

I think that ignores a lot of support for FOCIL. Credible commitment seems like a necessary condition for just DFIâ€™ing FOCIL now, or need to go back to FOCIL conversation now.
01:26:05	Anders Elowsson:	To state in the comments what I said on 8068 also: I just want to make sure people understand that the way to earn the highest yield on Ethereum is to just run multiple 32.75 ETH validators at 33 EB. If we believe it is going to be too complex for people to fiddle with this and not worth the energy, then we can ignore that concern as well. 

And it may very well be too complex and we may not think people will do it. I think that could be a reasonable assumption. I just want it to have been understood and considered.
01:26:41	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "It seems like too mu..."

We moved on with conversation because credible commitment was brought up as a path out of the glamsterdam conundrum
01:26:45	soispoke:	Reacted to "I think that ignores..." with ğŸ’¯
01:26:53	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:26:56	Dustin:	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:27:02	Potuz:	Reacted to "kev and pandaops has..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:27:06	cayman:	Reacted to "We moved on with con..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:08	soispoke:	Reacted to "We moved on with con..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:15	NC:	Reacted to "We moved on with conâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
01:27:19	cayman:	Reacted to "kev and pandaops has..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:27:23	Francesco:	Seems like a good enough reason to at least not SFI and just look into it a bit more first
01:27:38	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:27:44	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:08	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:15	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:15	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "To state in the comm..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:17	Daniel Knopik:	Reacted to "To state in the co..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:24	Willâ€™s iPhone:	Reacted to "committee.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:36	Francesco:	Process q: if I were to move out the â€œchurn sharing thingâ€ into a separate EIP, would people complain that it wasnâ€™t PFId on time?
01:28:58	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

It is grandfathered in ğŸ™‚
01:29:12	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think that ignores..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:13	cayman:	nice to have, opens the doors to use progressive ssz types for future features
01:29:16	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

probably - people do be complaining. worth doing though.
01:29:20	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "nice to have, opens ..." with ğŸ‘
01:29:23	Sergei Iakovlev | P2P.org:	Reacted to "To state in the co..." with ğŸ¤”
01:30:02	NC:	Stable container will be the new meme for the longest pfiâ€™ed eip in ethereum history
01:30:07	wolovim:	Reacted to "It is grandfathered ..." with â˜ï¸
01:30:07	Potuz:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

@FrancescoÂ that nonexistent EIP is my favorite by far, and we can get into the deeper discussion of the rest of 8061 and the right 7d vs 10d vs 30d WS separately.
01:30:27	Potuz:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

Aren't you the author of 8071? just change it :P
01:30:49	Potuz:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

Or was it Misha, get him to change it, and then it was PFI
01:30:50	kingy_sigp:	7688 and 8045 both were nice to haves for us. Without FOCIL we could more likely consider these in scope.
01:31:00	Greg K | Lido:	Lido on 7688: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1754#issuecomment-3410880980
01:31:01	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Stable container wil..." with ğŸ¥¹
01:31:02	Lodestar Team:	Replying to "Stable container wil..."

Itâ€™s the nicest thing to have every time, but never necessary enough
01:31:06	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Stable container wil..." with ğŸ¥¹
01:31:11	Francesco:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

Mikhail and I
01:31:27	Potuz:	@kasey said that it wont be too  much for us to include it
01:31:29	Francesco:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

Well I think from this call thereâ€™s people that prefer the other approach
01:31:37	Francesco:	Replying to "Process q: if I were..."

So maybe it isnâ€™t fair to just delete it from existence
01:32:12	Potuz:	Reacted to "So maybe it isnâ€™t fa..." with ğŸ¤£
01:32:18	Lodestar Team:	Not a huge lift for Lodestar either for stable container
01:33:10	Anders Elowsson:	Credible commitment..

TFI - targeted for inclusion?
01:33:20	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Credible commitmen..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:37	soispoke:	Replying to "Credible commitment...."

Please not one more acronym ğŸ™‚
01:33:45	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Please not one more ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:50	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Please not one more ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:50	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Please not one more ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:54	Potuz:	please do it
01:33:58	daveproxy80:	Reacted to "Please not one more ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:33:59	kingy_sigp:	no issue
01:34:02	satushh:	Reacted to "please do it" with ğŸ‘
01:34:05	kev and pandaops:	Reacted to "Please not one more ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:34:15	cayman:	Reacted to "no issue" with ğŸ‘
01:34:17	cayman:	Reacted to "please do it" with ğŸ‘
01:34:18	Lodestar Team:	No issue here either
01:34:19	NC:	Looks like the credible commitment discussion just suddenly stopped. Whatâ€™s the outcome of that discussion?
01:34:23	Jihoon:	Do we put all candidates on the table when discussing the headliner for H* or just FOCIL?
01:34:29	wolovim:	Reacted to "please do it" with ğŸ‘
01:34:30	wolovim:	Reacted to "no issue" with ğŸ‘
01:34:32	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Credible commitment...."

Hehe
01:34:47	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "Do we put all cand..."

i think for the CL we should
01:34:59	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "Do we put all cand..."

why not? it seems obvious
01:35:04	Potuz:	yeah, FOCIL happens to be both layers
01:35:24	Jihoon:	Replying to "Do we put all candid..."

So.. it's a good way to delay FOCIL further with the same reason?
01:35:45	cayman:	Replying to "Looks like the credi..."

sounded like "take convo offline, figure out process patch to support this"
01:35:54	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	â¤ï¸
01:36:03	kev and pandaops:	Replying to "Do we put all candid..."

I think itâ€™d be additive given that FOCIL is SFI-ed right? So the discussion would be for other headliners rather than a replacement headliner
01:36:24	Jihoon:	Replying to "Do we put all candid..."

Is it SFI'd for H?
01:37:11	wolovim:	Replying to "Do we put all candid..."

not on this call
