00:21:07	James He:	gm
00:21:41	Justin Florentine (Besu):	besu posted their list of devnet priorities in #allcoredevs
00:21:52	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "besu posted their li..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:21:59	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1528
00:22:01	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Hey all, I will await the general temperature check for PAY, and I think it is desired I prepared some slides for extra motivation to ship PAY :)
00:22:01	Ben Adams:	Replying to "besu posted their li..."

Not on issue?
00:22:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "besu posted their li..."

whoops....
00:22:23	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Sorry "if I think it is desired" I have slides. Will let it know by then :)
00:23:07	Ben Adams:	Replying to "besu posted their li..."

Discord gets lost :)
00:23:48	Mikhail Kalinin:	Small Pectra update: deposit mechanism transition has been successfully finished ~17 hrs after the fork, so, eth1_data poll can be safely removed -- this might matter for the history expiry discussion
00:24:12	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:13	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸš€
00:24:15	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:15	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸš€
00:24:18	James He:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸš€
00:24:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:27	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸš€
00:24:28	pawan:	Reacted to "Small Pectra update:..." with ğŸš€
00:24:31	James He:	Still looking into performance things for prysm
00:24:34	Barnabas:	smooth upgrade, good job everyone
00:24:37	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "smooth upgrade, good..." with â¤ï¸
00:24:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "smooth upgrade, good..." with â¤ï¸
00:24:45	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "smooth upgrade, go..." with â¤ï¸
00:24:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "smooth upgrade, good..." with â¤ï¸
00:25:08	Mario Vega:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@marioevz/fusaka-sfi-tracker
00:25:09	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "besu posted their li..."

ya.  updated the issue, thx!
00:25:17	pawan:	Replying to "Small Pectra update:..."

Canâ€™t wait to get rid of the old deposits code ğŸ˜
00:25:34	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Erigonâ€™s list: 1) 7883, 2) 7823, 3) 7825, 4) 7934, 5) 7212, 6) 7907, 7) 7762, 8) 7918, 9) 5920. Don't know enough about CL to opine on EIP-7917.
00:26:30	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "smooth upgrade, good..." with â¤ï¸
00:26:58	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	I will check with the rest of EthJS team but I think we align with the stance of Steel :)
00:26:59	Tim Beiko:	It seems like the 2 ModExp EIPs + the transaction limit cap are +1â€™d by all teams who replied. Maybe thatâ€™s a good enough start for devnet-1?
00:27:32	Marek MoraczyÅ„ski:	Reacted to "It seems like the 2 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:55	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "It seems like the 2 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:18	Barnabas:	Iâ€™m also working on doing mev workflow on peerdas activated networks.
00:28:22	terence:	will that be part of devnet0 spec?
00:28:29	Barnabas:	Replying to "will that be part of..."

yes
00:28:37	Barnabas:	Replying to "will that be part of..."

Client teams should get on it
00:28:39	terence:	Replying to "will that be part of..."

thanks, ill work on it today
00:28:41	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Bpo?
00:28:44	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "It seems like the 2 ..."

This means devnet-1 is PeerDAS + â€œquick fixesâ€, and then for the next devnet we can consider which â€œcore featuresâ€ we want
00:28:46	Barnabas:	Replying to "will that be part of..."

BPO
00:28:50	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "BPO" with ğŸ‘
00:29:00	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "It seems like the 2 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:16	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "It seems like the 2 ..."

Devnet-0 Tim ğŸ˜„ we use real programming languages in this house
00:29:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	besu has BPO scheduled on 0
00:29:44	Tim Beiko:	devnet-0 in <2 weeks ğŸ˜„ 

Add ModExp + txn limit cap?
00:29:54	pawan:	For lighthouse too
00:29:58	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "devnet-0 in <2 wee..." met ğŸ‘
00:30:03	Barnabas:	other CLs?
00:30:11	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Teku is still working on it. 1 week is a bit too early for us I guess
00:30:11	Dmitrii Shmatko:	I think 2 weeks ok
00:30:29	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	2 weeks seems more reasonable
00:30:35	Som - Erigon:	2 weeks
00:30:41	FLCL:	blobs/tx limit?
00:30:43	Barnabas:	Lets aim for 26th May for fusaka-devnet-0 with bpo.
00:30:56	Roman:	Reacted to "Lets aim for 26th Ma..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:04	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "Lets aim for 26th Ma..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:06	Gajinder:	Reacted to Lets aim for 26th Ma... with "ğŸ‘"
00:31:09	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "Lets aim for 26th ..." met ğŸ‘
00:31:10	Will Corcoran:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/peerdas-devnet-7
00:31:14	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Lets aim for 26th Ma..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Lets aim for 26th Ma..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:18	Will Corcoran:	This is the devote-7 spec Justin
00:31:20	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "Lets aim for 26th ..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:45	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4277
00:32:01	Gajinder:	Ethjs also ok with any decided timeline
00:32:38	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "Ethjs also ok with..." met ğŸ‘
00:33:37	Tim Beiko:	ModExp should also help with PerfNet ğŸ˜„
00:34:06	Som - Erigon:	No
00:34:26	Som - Erigon:	Modexp on devnet-1
00:34:35	lightclient:	did we get spec tests for modexp?
00:34:57	Mario Vega:	Replying to "did we get spec test..."

Working on it, EELS has an implementation from which we can start writing tests
00:35:11	lightclient:	Reacted to "Working on it, EELS ..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:14	Louis:	Reacted to "Working on it, EELS ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:25	Barnabas:	If ELs have nothing to do, they should just work on modexp
00:36:34	Tim Beiko:	Do we need all clients at launch for devnet-0?
00:36:43	lightclient:	Reacted to "Do we need all clien..." with ğŸš€
00:38:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	But if the team cannot hit the deadline, then we have to either launch without besu or delay the devnet
00:38:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	And id like to avoid delaying devnet
00:38:40	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "But if the team cann..."

Yes, I think launching the devnet without all clients should be fine? 

If we have Reth/Geth/Neth/Erigon (?) that seems sufficient to launch
00:38:48	Barnabas:	EL side changes should be pretty trivial AFAIK ?
00:38:57	Som - Erigon:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/630/files
00:39:27	pk910:	blob v1 ( new blob format)
00:40:02	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Whats the issue? @Justin Florentine (Besu)
00:40:24	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Whats the issue? @Ju..."

super niche and weird packaging issue -
00:40:40	Francesco:	This is the tx pool change in the EIP: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9378/files
00:41:00	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Replying to "Whats the issue? @Ju..."

Ah makes sense
00:41:05	Francis Li:	can we make it just in fusaka test branch?
00:42:07	Barnabas:	This doesnâ€™t sound like a peerdas issue tho?
00:42:09	Justin Florentine (Besu):	that was our thinking
00:42:17	Tim Beiko:	Are there other clients with issues?
00:42:58	Barnabas:	+1
00:43:01	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "+1" with ğŸ‘
00:43:03	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "+1" with ğŸ‘
00:43:22	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	EthJS will also prep ModExp ASAP so should also join devnet-0 with or without ModExp changes
00:43:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	totally fine with that
00:43:57	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Maybe Besu can just be ran on linux/arm machines for peerDAS testing?
00:44:09	Som - Erigon:	We should do PAY opcode
00:44:13	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "We should do PAY o..." met ğŸ‘
00:44:43	Som - Erigon:	Yes, devnet-1
00:44:44	Tim Beiko:	+1 on PAY/7212/contract code size increase, etc. being considered for devnet-1
00:44:52	Roman:	Reacted to "+1 on PAY/7212/etc. ..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:59	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9590
00:45:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:19	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:28	Justin Florentine (Besu):	my thinking is if PeerDAS is the most important thing, devnet 0 shoudl be our "worst case" shipping for launch
00:45:35	Roman:	We are discussing modexp because clients mostly agreed on it being a priority. Same cannot be said about PAY opcode
00:46:10	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Heeft gereageerd op "+1 on PAY/7212/con..." met ğŸ‘
00:46:22	Som - Erigon:	Reacted to "We are discussing ..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:23	Mario Vega:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@marioevz/fusaka-sfi-tracker
00:47:30	jochem-brouwer (EthJS):	Antwoord verzenden naar "We are discussing ..."

This is true, but feedback on clarfications and improvements on PAY would be nice on the PR: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9590. Should take less than 30 mins to check :) I will push spec clarification + tests + ref impl. for devnet-1
00:47:31	Justin Florentine (Besu):	what test suite is gating peerdas-devnet-7 and/or fusaka-devnet-0 ?
00:48:49	Mario Vega:	Replying to "what test suite is g..."

Working on devnet-0 tests still, weâ€™ll try to make a release with minimal tests asap
00:49:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	next rollcall is a week from now
00:49:37	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "next rollcall is a w..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "next rollcall is a w..."

9 days to be precise, Wednesday
00:50:01	Ansgar Dietrichs:	so would that be added to the peerdas EIP? because I was actually confused by this, I thought I remembered we agreed on a per-tx blob limit, but could not find any CFIâ€™d EIP for it
00:50:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so would that be add..."

so I wonder what the process is for adding it now
00:50:31	Derek G:	Replying to "so would that be a..."

BPO EIP, I believe
00:50:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so would that be add..."

ah. that seems like the wrong place, conceptually
00:51:10	FLCL:	Replying to "so would that be add..."

https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9623
00:51:11	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	How does this intersect with the cap on tx size in the network?
00:51:40	FLCL:	Replying to "so would that be add..."

Initially it was an EIP now is an addition to peerdas
00:51:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so would that be add..."

okay that makes sense
00:52:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	nice thing is that shipping this limit in fusaka this is not super committal, can always be modified (up or down) or even completely lifted in a later fork
00:52:51	FLCL:	Reacted to "nice thing is that s..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:16	Justin Traglia:	Yes, thatâ€™s right. Only the block.
00:54:38	Mario Vega:	github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4277
00:55:40	lightclient:	EIP-7212
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7907 
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7912
00:55:46	stokes:	Replying to "github.com/ethereum/â€¦"
sorry my zoom app was bugging, but yeah we are good here e
00:56:05	Francis Li:	Reacted to "nice thing is that sâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:56:06	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "sorry my zoom app wa..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:56:21	Ben Adams:	Replying to "EIP-7212
https://eip..."

7912 is in DFI list?
00:57:02	FLCL:	Where is era hosted?
00:57:08	FLCL:	For sepolia
00:57:24	Roman:	Reacted to "Where is era hosted?" with ğŸ‘
00:57:38	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://eth-clients.github.io/history-endpoints/
00:57:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Here ğŸ˜„
00:58:24	FLCL:	Reacted to "https://eth-clients...." with â¤ï¸
00:59:48	Barnabas:	should we just target fusaka ?
01:01:06	FLCL:	Docs is what can be measured ig
01:01:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Docs is what can be ..." with ğŸ”¥
