00:02:49	Marcos A. Maceo:	Hi Everyone
00:03:20	Mario Vega:	gm
00:03:33	Pooja Ranjan:	gm
00:03:33	nixo:	gm
00:03:34	Chris:	GM
00:03:36	xuzhiqiang:	gm
00:03:37	Martin | ethrex:	gm
00:03:39	Marcos A. Maceo:	gm
00:03:39	Guillaume:	gm
00:03:53	Wei Han Ng:	gn
00:04:08	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:04:29	Marius van der Wijden:	Good morning y'all
00:04:36	terence:	gm
00:04:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1764
00:04:57	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Good morning y'all"

when the Europeans start using y'all, my work here is done.
00:05:16	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Good morning y'all"

Mine too for today :D
00:05:39	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Good morning y'all"

Only two more calls and a presentation left
00:06:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "when the Europeans s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:06:41	nixo:	Reacted to "when the Europeans s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:04	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "when the Europeans s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:07:30	Carson:	Reacted to "when the Europeans..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:30	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "when the Europeans s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:49	Barnabas:	Reacted to "when the Europeans s..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:09:01	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@bbusa/fusaka-bpo-timeline
00:09:23	Barnabas:	Please note that BPO1 has an adjusted time compared to before!
00:09:34	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1764#issuecomment-3435616551
00:10:30	Barnabas:	original BPO1 proposal was the 17th of Dec, this has been shifted to 9th of Dec.
00:11:10	Barnabas:	Iâ€™m also proposing to change the rule of when we can schedule mainnet: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/pull/1780
00:11:24	Åukasz Rozmej:	GTG
00:11:34	Jen:	Reacted to "GTG" with ğŸ‘
00:11:41	Marius van der Wijden:	:+1:
00:12:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "GTG" with ğŸ‘
00:12:42	Phil Ngo:	ğŸš¢
00:13:44	stokes:	3 Nov for client releases!
00:13:46	Barnabas:	preconfirmations
00:13:50	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "3 Nov for client rel..." with ğŸ‘
00:14:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "preconfirmations" with ğŸ¤£
00:14:11	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "3 Nov for client rel..." with ğŸ‘
00:14:51	Justin Traglia:	I like the current language around it. Wait for all testnets.
00:15:27	Luca | Vero:	Reacted to "I like the current l..." with ğŸ‘
00:15:31	Chris:	Reacted to "I like the current..." with ğŸ‘
00:15:49	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "preconfirmations" with ğŸ¤£
00:15:56	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "preconfirmations" with ğŸ¤£
00:16:02	Åukasz Rozmej:	I'm fine with "all but 1 testnet"
00:16:21	Stefan Bratanov:	Reacted to "I'm fine with "all b..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:48	Barnabas:	I just want less bikeshedding :D
00:16:49	potuz:	config changes on the ENR and P2P advertises the next fork epoch... it's not entirely trivial, but again I think it's reasonable not to require all testnets
00:16:51	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I'm fine with "all..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:56	stokes:	Replying to "I just want less bik..."

But we love bikes
00:17:19	stokes:	ACD can, if needed, override parts of this document.
00:17:36	Justin Traglia:	But then it leads to more confusion if/when the dates change.
00:18:26	potuz:	I like that idea
00:18:33	Marius van der Wijden:	We never forced clients to release all at the same time before
00:18:46	Justin Traglia:	Sounds fine to me
00:18:52	Barnabas:	Setting the date early is better for predictability, and thats all I want to push.
00:18:59	J Sunnyside Labs:	Btw do we also have testnet guideline for BPO forks?
00:19:01	Barnabas:	This would all matter in glammy not for fusaka.
00:19:11	stokes:	Reacted to "Setting the date ear..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:38	Barnabas:	We donâ€™t have any glammy devnets up yet
00:20:16	Stefan Starflinger:	we should have one up soon for BAL
00:20:25	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to we should have one u... with "ğŸ”¥"
00:20:37	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we should have one u..." with ğŸ”¥
00:20:38	Jared Wasinger:	Reacted to "we should have one u..." with ğŸ”¥
00:20:50	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1764#issuecomment-3433396802
00:22:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i'm not aware of that requirement?
00:22:25	stokes:	Replying to "i'm not aware of tha..."

same
00:22:28	Barnabas:	They had months to propose already?
00:22:53	RaÃºl Kripalani:	We are planning to submit an EIP for the sparse blobpool
00:23:31	bosul:	Reacted to "We are planning to sâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:23:57	Barnabas:	number will be assigned same day, it wonâ€™t be merged, but that should be fine
00:24:05	Barnabas:	as long as you have a number its ok no?
00:24:13	Marc Harvey-Hill:	could make the deadline the cutoff for making a PR to glamsterdam meta-eip, so don't need to wait for merge
00:24:36	Marc Harvey-Hill:	or making a draft Pr if you don't have a number yet
00:27:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think we can say:
until 1 week from now to make PFI intent clear
until 2 weeks from now to have everything properly merged (EIP itself and PFI in Meta EIP)
00:28:06	Josh Davis:	There are 31 PFIâ€™d EIPs
00:28:09	Pooja Ranjan:	Weâ€™re looking to add more editors to help merge PRs faster and keep the review queue moving.
If anyone has thoughts or feedback on this proposal, please share them in the comments.
https://github.com/ethcatherders/EIPIP/issues/394
00:28:18	Ben Adams:	small fork ;)
00:28:47	potuz:	Reacted to "small fork ;)" with ğŸ˜
00:28:52	wolovim:	https://forkcast.org/upgrade/glamsterdam#proposed-for-inclusion
00:29:02	potuz:	Reacted to "Setting the date ear..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:24	kev:	Does the November deadline take into consideration devconnect?
00:29:31	Barnabas:	Replying to "Does the November de..."

yes
00:29:47	Barnabas:	EL devs are not too busy anyways :D
00:30:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "EL devs are not too ..." with ğŸ˜…
00:30:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	FOCIL


end of list.
00:30:40	Justin Florentine (Besu):	(this is a joke, not besu position)
00:30:46	Barnabas:	Reacted to "(this is a joke, not..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:30:50	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "EL devs are not too ..." with ğŸ˜…
00:30:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "(this is a joke, not..."

sad you have to highlight this fact ğŸ˜„
00:31:02	Marcos A. Maceo:	Replying to "(this is a joke, not..."

++
00:31:14	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to small fork ;) with "ğŸ˜"
00:32:04	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to EL devs are not too ... with "ğŸ˜…"
00:32:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "(this is a joke, not..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:32:31	potuz:	@RaÃºl KripalaniÂ have there been EIPs for the mempool before? I think EL devs explicitly don't want to specify it isn't it?
00:32:58	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Worth pointing out that thereâ€™s a lot of related EIPs, eg repricing, that maybe make it a bit easier to work through ~30 EIPs by themes / bundles
00:33:03	Marius van der Wijden:	My position for the previous discussion: we should always error on the side of practicality. The process should work for us, not us for the process
00:33:19	stokes:	I do think it would be very helpful for CL teams to have written opinions out
00:33:32	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "(this is a joke, not..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:33	stokes:	(So parse as a strong nudge ;) )
00:33:36	potuz:	Can we use ACDC time to analyze some of the EL EIPs? no reason to delay 2 weeks just because of existing schedules and artificial divisions of ACD
00:33:51	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Can we use ACDC time..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:55	stokes:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

Im fine w/ that if enough EL devs show up
00:33:58	wolovim:	Do client teams have any requests of eip authors to make it easier to review their proposals?
00:34:15	stokes:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

Would want to get through all of the CL stuff first
00:34:23	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

Maybe lets have 3 ACDE in a row and skip an ACDC?
00:34:33	stokes:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

Its an idea lol
00:34:44	stokes:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

It is a lot to moderate calls back-to-back like that
00:34:56	Ben Adams:	and example effects/test cases
00:34:57	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

Ansgar is up for it I heard.
00:35:14	potuz:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

lol
00:35:16	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "and example effects/..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:34	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Can we use ACDC time..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:42	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "Ansgar is up for it â€¦" with ğŸ˜…
00:35:43	potuz:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

Agreed on going through the CL EIPs firsts
00:35:50	potuz:	Replying to "Can we use ACDC time..."

can't +1 for some reason in this client
00:35:52	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "and example effects/..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:52	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Can we use ACDC time..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:01	Wei Han Ng:	Reacted to "and example effects/..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:30	Ben Adams:	Use extra time in ADCT also?
00:36:30	Barnabas:	Lets get through all the CL stuff next week?
00:36:46	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Use extra time in AD..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we should schedule async pre-work harder
00:36:51	potuz:	I don't think we need to swap the entire call, just use the free time to discuss EL stuff
00:37:04	stokes:	Replying to "Lets get through all..."

Possibly, not sure what Cl PFIs will come thru
00:37:08	stokes:	Replying to "Lets get through all..."

In the next week
00:37:10	wolovim:	Reacted to "I don't think we nee..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:13	stokes:	Reacted to "I don't think we nee..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:50	Marius van der Wijden:	I think it would be good for client teams to highlight proposals that they ABSOLUTELY don't want, so we don't spend too much time on those
00:37:57	stokes:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:59	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:01	potuz:	+1 ^
00:38:05	potuz:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:19	wolovim:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:19	Martin | ethrex:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:20	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:29	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:32	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I think it would b..." met ğŸ‘
00:38:50	Andrew Ashikhmin:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:53	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:56	Josh Davis:	Almost fully complete.
00:39:00	Josh Davis:	Missing 1 champion
00:39:05	wolovim:	All champions listed on forkcast: https://forkcast.org/upgrade/glamsterdam#proposed-for-inclusion
00:39:09	Trent:	Reacted to "Almost fully complet..." with ğŸ”¥
00:39:19	Josh Davis:	I think thats the one
00:39:23	potuz:	Like asking Vitalik to show up on the hashing pricing?
00:39:44	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "All champions listed..." with â¤ï¸
00:39:52	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "All champions listed..." with â¤ï¸
00:40:06	kev:	Forgot to put on agenda:

For max-blobs, it doesnâ€™t require a hardfork so itâ€™s not explicitly proposed
00:40:39	Barnabas:	Replying to "Forgot to put on age..."

max blobs?
00:41:21	kev:	Replying to "Forgot to put on ageâ€¦"
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7872
00:41:22	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Like asking Vitali..."

If he's the champion, he should be available for questions/discussions
00:41:51	stokes:	You want to PFI it?
00:41:57	stokes:	Replying to "Forgot to put on age..."

Should get it on the meta eip
00:42:06	RaÃºl Kripalani:	The CL could use this as a perf engineering cycle if thereâ€™s lesser EIP work
00:42:06	kev:	Replying to "Forgot to put on ageâ€¦"
It doesnâ€™t require a hardfork so wasnâ€™t sure
00:42:09	nixo:	Replying to "Like asking Vitalik ..."

it sounds like zkEVM is for removing this EIP
00:42:16	stokes:	Replying to "Forgot to put on age..."

Its not a core consensus thing but we also have been trending towards making this type of thing part of formal forks
00:42:22	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "it sounds like zkE..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:24	kev:	Reacted to "Its not a core conseâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:42:33	Barnabas:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

doesnâ€™t seem to match the latest master commit from https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-7773.md
00:42:40	CPerezz:	Reacted to "All champions listed..." with â¤ï¸
00:42:48	potuz:	Replying to "Like asking Vitalik ..."

guess who's the only EIP without a champion :)
00:42:50	Barnabas:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

e.g declined for inclusion list only has 1 on forkcast, while has 6 on the meta eip
00:43:02	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Its not a core conse..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:02	stokes:	Replying to "The CL could use thi..."

Perhaps; if thereâ€™s â€˜spare timeâ€™ (which im also not convinced of), then it can go into refining glam EIPs/specs as we get deeper into impl
00:43:08	Maria Silva:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1764#issuecomment-3436247707
00:43:37	Pooja Ranjan:	Replying to "Forgot to put on age..."

Keeping on Meta EIP anyway will be nice for signaling.
00:43:48	kev:	Reacted to "Keeping on Meta EIP â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:43:50	Barnabas:	Replying to "Forgot to put on age..."

yeah, every change whether it requires a hard fork or not should be proposed, so that it wont get forgotten
00:44:03	Josh Davis:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

Those are all headliners that we did not select. We are trying to decide how to represent these best while maintaining historical context
00:44:07	wolovim:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

We can add those recently DFIâ€™d. They are not mixed up within the PFI list, for example, just not represented anywhere. I think those are the unchosen headliners
00:44:09	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "The CL could use thiâ€¦"
Yeah, EIP volume != implementation effort, big â€˜ifâ€™
00:44:17	wolovim:	Reacted to "Those are all headli..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:48	Marius van der Wijden:	I will be there :)
00:44:51	Barnabas:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

unchosen headliners are DFIed
00:44:54	CPerezz:	@Maria Silva Are these calls the same as the ones we have on Fridays for repricing?
00:45:04	Maria Silva:	No, carlos
00:45:06	wolovim:	Reacted to "unchosen headliners ..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:09	CPerezz:	Reacted to "No, carlos" with ğŸ‘
00:45:10	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "@Maria Silva Are t..."

Hopefully with more attendees
00:45:10	Barnabas:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

just put them in the DFI section?
00:45:15	wolovim:	Reacted to "just put them in the..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:16	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Hopefully with more ..." with ğŸ˜…
00:45:41	Josh Davis:	Replying to "All champions listed..."

We want to make sure that they are designated as headliner proposals in the DFI. They will make it there eventually
00:45:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "All champions listed..." with â¤ï¸
00:45:56	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Replying to "The CL could use thiâ€¦"
Also epbs (CL) being glam timeline bottleneck
00:46:02	nixo:	Reacted to "just put them in the..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:17	Ameziane Hamlat:	I will be there as well
00:46:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Do we expect community members at these repricing calls or not?
00:47:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think it would be ..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:52	potuz:	Reacted to "Its not a core conse..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	itâ€™s a good problem to have :-)
00:49:09	potuz:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a good problem ..." with ğŸ˜„
00:49:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s a good problem ..."

I miss being able to just leave useless comments like that in chat more often during the call
00:49:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s a good problem ..."

canâ€™t wait for Tim to take back over so I can return to my professional chatter role
00:49:30	nixo:	Reacted to "I miss being able to..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:49:31	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "I miss being able toâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:49:33	felix (eest):	Reacted to "I miss being able ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:49:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a good problem ..." with ğŸ˜„
00:49:37	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I miss being able to..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:49:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:49:46	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:50:10	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I miss being able to..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:50:19	Barnabas:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:50:31	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:50:31	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I miss being able to..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:50:32	nixo:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ’
00:50:52	potuz:	what is that chart? it's showing negative rounding errors after 400Mg/s ?
00:50:59	satushh:	Reacted to "what is that chart..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:05	Ben Adams:	Made opcodes too efficient
00:51:20	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ’
00:51:34	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Made opcodes too eff..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:51:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Easy giga-gas
00:51:59	potuz:	Reacted to "Made opcodes too eff..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:01	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:03	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:05	Ben Adams:	Didn't think we'd we get to GigaGas this way ;)
00:52:07	potuz:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜
00:52:07	Yann Vonlanthen:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:09	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:09	Marc Harvey-Hill:	Reacted to "Made opcodes too e..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:10	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:10	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜
00:52:10	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:14	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:19	Felix (Geth):	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ‘
00:52:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Easy giga-gas"

core devs donâ€™t want you to know about this one weird trick to scale your L1
00:52:26	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	fractional gas seems to be a lot more work IMO
00:52:34	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "fractional gas seems..." with ğŸ‘
00:52:43	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "core devs donâ€™t want..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:46	felix (eest):	Reacted to "core devs donâ€™t w..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:52:47	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Easy giga-gas"

cryptotwitter in shambles
00:52:50	wolovim:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ“ˆ
00:53:05	potuz:	these sound like juicy consensus failures happening soon in the next fork :)
00:53:06	lightclient:	Reacted to "fractional gas seems..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:10	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "fractional gas seems..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:15	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "these sound like jui..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:19	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "these sound like jui..." with â•
00:53:33	lightclient:	Have you looked into how this affects existing contracts?
00:53:42	Ben Adams:	Replying to "fractional gas seems..."

More upstream work and side effects from rebasing
00:53:46	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Have you looked into..." with â•
00:53:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "More upstream work a..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Easy giga-gas" with ğŸ˜‚
00:54:02	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Have you looked into..."

I have been, basically no effect with â€œrebaseâ€
00:54:04	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "More upstream work a..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "core devs donâ€™t want..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:54:25	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Have you looked into..."

With contracts that do gas introspection?
00:54:27	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I have been, basic..." with â¤ï¸
00:54:29	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Have you looked into..." with â•
00:54:31	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Have you looked into..."

yes
00:54:34	Marios:	Why not combine x1000 with a redefinition so that nothing actually changes on the UX
00:54:46	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "these sound like jui..." with â•
00:54:49	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	I more leaning towards scaling gas up instead of doing fractional gas. Users don't care too much about abs. gas used and introducing fractions feels prune to bugs
00:55:20	Marius van der Wijden:	I would prefer to anchor to the 21k gas for a basic transfer
00:55:54	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "canâ€™t wait for Tim t..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:55:54	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would prefer to ..."

So neither fractional gas nor repricing *1000
00:55:56	Åukasz Rozmej:	take 1 gas as basic compute cost, adjust the rest
00:55:56	potuz:	Replying to "Have you looked into..."

yeah I assume the EVM will show the old gas price rounded
00:56:11	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I would prefer to an..."

Basic transfer is mispriced; so would through everything out
00:56:19	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I would prefer to an..."

@Ben Adams wants to lower that number :D
00:56:25	potuz:	Replying to "Have you looked into..."

only in total gas used and burn is that this would make a difference, so only in consensus, not EVM
00:56:28	CPerezz:	Replying to "take 1 gas as basic ..."

This will break a lot of contracts that have hardcoded gas costs in CALL/DELEGATECALL
00:56:40	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "This will break a lo..." with ğŸ’¯
00:56:47	donnoh | L2BEAT:	fwiw arbitrum solves this problem by introducing â€œinkâ€ where 1 gas = 10k ink https://docs.arbitrum.io/stylus/concepts/gas-metering#ink-and-gas
00:57:07	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would prefer to ..."

Yes, but instead of lowering that, we can increase everything else
00:57:25	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "take 1 gas as basic ..."

how low should be the lowest operation now in gas?
00:57:27	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "take 1 gas as basic ..."

0.8 gas?
00:57:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "take 1 gas as basic ..."

0.0000001 gas?
00:57:45	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would prefer to ..."

Thats what I mean, anchor to the 21k, repricing everything including the simple transfer, so that the anchor works
00:58:50	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I would prefer to ..." met ğŸ‘
01:00:15	Ameziane Hamlat:	@Maria Silva could you share the links to the benchmarks results and links from the presentation ?
01:00:35	Maria Silva:	Replying to "@Maria Silva could y..."

https://notes.ethereum.org/@misilva/Hy6o1OLRgx#/
01:00:46	Maria Silva:	Replying to "@Maria Silva could y..."

All links are at the end
01:00:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	my personal opinion is the other side from Carl - I feel a bit uncomfortable with a large rebasing like 1000x

I think particle gas / milligas is not actually that much overhead (your actual gas counter in the implementation is now 1000x more resolution, but any time the EVM asks, you round to the old resolution) and would just get rid of the backwards compatibility headache
01:00:57	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ™
01:01:15	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "my personal opinio..." met ğŸ‘
01:01:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "my personal opinion ..."

but maybe that is me being too conservative, and we need to get comfortable with bigger gas changes anyway ğŸ¤·â€â™‚ï¸
01:05:30	potuz:	Yeah Maria it does make sense, but the worry I have is that the broadcast/execution part of gas usage changes a lot in Glamsterdam
01:05:40	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Yeah Maria it does m..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:43	potuz:	and presumaby that will need a bigger change in gas pricing
01:06:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "and presumaby that w..."

I think the repricing effort overall does already work on including the ePBS and BALs effects in the pricing targets
01:06:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "and presumaby that w..."

but yes, you are right, these two headliner EIPs do significantly change how much room we have in a slot for different operations
01:07:24	Maria Silva:	Replying to "and presumaby that w..."

We definitely  want to take that into account in for repricings
01:08:07	Ben Adams:	Also rebasing externally would add more bytes to each tx (gaslimt) so use more bandwidth
01:08:20	Maria Silva:	Great point, Carl
01:08:23	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Yeah Maria it does m..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:39	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Great point, Carl" with ğŸ«¡
01:11:36	kev:	I think itâ€™s too early
01:11:39	potuz:	Maria, Carl, was the biggest point against a rebase the external tooling that will need changes? I didn't get why for example wallets would need to change at all.
01:11:59	potuz:	to me it was a nobrainer that rebase should have minimal impact
01:12:38	Carl Beekhuizen:	another thing to flag, I personally think we should not target an arbitrary MGas/s and rather anchor on an existing OPCODE/ reference point.

eg. I think itâ€™d be better to aim to keep the 21kGas tx minimum than 200MGas/ second. the former is a more meaningful anchor for everyone imo
01:13:22	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "another thing to f..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:41	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	im thinking neither rebasing nor fractional should be the solution. we should just do repricing of everything and keep the smallest unit as 1. of course, along side that we would raise the gas limit to align with the new prices. this is way less big of a hassle than the suggested approaches. the suggested approaches feel like over engineering
01:14:00	potuz:	Replying to "another thing to fla..."

I think this is trickier with regards to what I am pointing that the broadcast/execution part of the slot changes in Glamsterdam and therefore the relative OPCODE gas pricing should change IMO
01:14:01	RaÃºl Kripalani:	That should be the sound of Fusaka
01:14:04	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Du du du du
01:14:04	Marius van der Wijden:	I will sample it from the recording
01:14:17	nixo:	Reacted to "I will sample it fro..." with ğŸ˜„
01:14:19	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Du du du du" with ğŸ˜„
01:14:21	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Du du du du" with ğŸ˜„
01:14:28	nixo:	Reacted to "Du du du du" with ğŸ˜„
01:14:32	Maria Silva:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

This and hardcoded values
01:14:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Du du du du" with ğŸ˜„
01:14:35	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Yes, pretty much. e.g. a basic ETH transfer would require 210k gas with a 10x rebase
01:14:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Du du du du" with ğŸ˜„
01:14:36	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I will sample it fro..." with ğŸ˜„
01:14:39	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "I will sample it fro..." with ğŸ˜„
01:14:40	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Du du du du" with ğŸ˜„
01:14:42	felix (eest):	Reacted to "I will sample it f..." with ğŸ˜„
01:14:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I will sample it fro..." with ğŸ˜„
01:14:54	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Well hardcoded values arenâ€™t really a thing in practice
01:15:10	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

but not on the wallet, the wallet doesn't need to change, the tx gas limit needs to be multiplied in the client in consensus
01:15:23	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

also think that @Ben AdamsÂ comment on bytes on the fly is wrong
01:15:24	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

because of this
01:15:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I am still nostalgic for the time where I could remember which EIP number was which proposal. now it is just this never ending avalanche of digits everywhere
01:15:35	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

the wallet doesn't need the division
01:15:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Aah, you mean under particle gas, not rebase?
01:16:13	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Rebase means every gas code now costs e.g. 10x more
01:16:18	Maria Silva:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

With this, we are incurring those rounding errors I was showing at the beginning.
01:16:21	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I am still nostalg..."

We should know all proposals by heart, right? :)
01:16:23	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Both internally and externally
01:16:30	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "I am still nostalgic..." with â•
01:16:31	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Why using the AL instead of a new field?
01:16:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "We should know all p..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:16:36	Maria Silva:	We can discuss if that is a problem we want to tackle or not
01:16:39	nixo:	Replying to "I am still nostalgic..."

just get them all tattooed on yourself so you can easily access them. ezpz
01:16:48	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

I mean just rebase all opcodes to 1000 the current price, but only do it internally and dont  change anything outside, not even in the EVM for gas introspection
01:16:49	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "I am still nostalgic..." with â•
01:16:51	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

just total accounting
01:16:56	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

external rebasing would need the tx gaslimit also to increase; otherwise everything gets weird
01:17:01	Leo:	Reacted to "just get them all ..." with ğŸ˜
01:17:14	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

internal rebase is the fractional gas
01:17:17	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "just get them all ta..." with ğŸ˜
01:17:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I am still nostalgic..."

we should have an acd pub quiz once a year at devcon or interop or something, with prizes for whoever can remember EIPs by number the best
01:17:22	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Exactly @Ben Adams
01:17:28	Louis:	Replying to "I am still nostalgic..."

Can eip named after comet?
01:17:37	Åukasz Rozmej:	is this forward compatible when bytecode will leave in a tree?
01:17:40	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "we should have an ..." met ğŸ‘€
01:17:43	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Oh ok I am getting the nomenclature wrong
01:17:43	Maria Silva:	Potus, what you are suggesting is my milli-gas proposal
01:17:44	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I am still nostalg..."

There are these trash-tv participants in germany that did that, tatooed all their trash tv seasons on them
01:17:50	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

if we reprice all opcodes and precompiles, Wouldnt those rounding errors completely disappear. for example, just use 30 instead of 3 and use 15 for something you want to price as 1.5. this way it is not a real rebase, but opcode and precompile repricing.
01:17:54	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "we should have an ac..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I am still nostalgic..."

we can name EIPs by cities of smaller Ethereum conferences. if there is one thing more endless than EIPs itâ€™s conferences
01:18:18	Leo:	Replying to "I am still nostalg..."

There was a quiz at the Grantee night with questions about EIPs
01:18:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "There are these tras..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:24	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

yeah probably I messed up what "rebase" means, but yeah I meant only internally work with every gas unit multiplied by 1000
01:18:30	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

you can think of it as rebase, but without the big tooling and wallet associated changes around it. as they can just consider it as repricing
01:18:32	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

btw even with external rebasing, only 2339 transactions in Ethereumâ€™s history ever that would either fail or have a different state-root
01:18:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "There was a quiz at ..." with ğŸ”¥
01:18:34	Wei Han Ng:	Replying to "is this forward comp..."

It's only possible if there are no accounts referencing it
01:18:42	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

and then the gas limit goes up matching the new prices
01:19:10	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

external rebasing is literally asking the wallet to send 21M for a transfer? that I think will be a nightmare fork
01:19:22	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "external rebasing is..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:23	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "another thing to fla..."

yes, pretty much every opcodeâ€™s pricing will change under (separate) EIP-7904
01:20:40	Maria Silva:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

The errors I was showing is already with a reprice based on Jacekâ€™s empirical numbers. What you are suggesting is a softer rebase (like 10x), while still incurring some rounding errors. So I think it get some UX complexities while keeping rounding errors
01:20:54	potuz:	Reacted to "yes, pretty much eve..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:54	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "is this forward comp..."

should be compatible, because the code hash and the code tree root are both just pointers to the code, just in different formats
01:21:00	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "should be compatib..." met ğŸ‘
01:21:02	Wei Han Ng:	Reacted to "should be compatible..." with ğŸ‘
01:21:07	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "I will sample it froâ€¦" with ğŸ˜„
01:21:29	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

How different can it be? If it doubled to 42k would that still be ok?
01:21:56	CPerezz:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1773
01:22:01	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Becuase unless that is the anchor, it will change to somewhat
01:22:15	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

But I agree a 1000x external rebase is a non-starter
01:22:27	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

Iâ€™d argue no more than 10x
01:23:11	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "just get them all ..." with ğŸ˜
01:23:12	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

are the rounding errors still significant with a soft rebase?
01:23:22	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

as described above?
01:23:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	itâ€™s a bit unfortunate that we donâ€™t have EOF (â€¦), because contracts could be more thoroughly deduplicated just on the code section. without it, any contracts that have constants hard coded into code that change between deployments canâ€™t be deduplicated
01:23:50	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..." with ğŸ˜‡
01:24:01	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfort..." with ğŸ˜‡
01:24:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..." with ğŸ˜‡
01:24:23	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

I think any required changes on wallets makes a nightmare fork. We should learn this from rollups that are blocked from making any internal changes that will need wallet support, coordinating this is a nightmare
01:24:27	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfort..." with ğŸ™„
01:24:30	Guillaume:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

Ansgar said the E word
01:24:32	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "itâ€™s a bit unfort..."

Yes I wanted to bring this up, esp. with Solidity constants where I'm rather sure constants (like ERC20 token name) are indeed written to code instead of storage. So you cannot duplicate ERC20 contracts if you want a different token name
01:24:32	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "I think any required..." with â•
01:24:48	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

so it's not abou tthe value, but rather the players that need to help in the fork
01:24:52	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Ansgar said the E ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:24:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

is a soft rebase just 10x everything instead of 1000x everything?

because you canâ€™t only 10x the compute operations, otherwise they are too expensive relative to state access and calldata and so on
01:24:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

And even outside of rounding errors. Say we set ADD to 1 gas, transaction minimum (21k) will still jump up a bunch
01:25:03	potuz:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

if we can keep it to client teams that's much simpler
01:25:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

@Guillaume well you said the V word earlier on the call :-)
01:25:51	potuz:	Reacted to "@Guillaume well you ..." with ğŸ˜€
01:25:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "@Guillaume well you ..." with ğŸ˜€
01:25:55	Guillaume:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

I wasn't the first though
01:25:56	Maria Silva:	Replying to "im thinking neither ..."

Yeah, if we 10x everything, I still think it is a rebase with impact to UX
01:25:57	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

So the anchor in your mind should be the 21k? (That is my personal preference)
01:26:02	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "And even outside of ..." with ğŸ’¯
01:26:02	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

yeah, that is my thought as well. we should keep the work on the client. adjust prices and gas limit without any complications in the implementation of calculations or changes in the tooling and wallets
01:26:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

@jochem-brouwer yes it really is an unfortunate limitation. even with it though, the gains still seem significant
01:26:09	Guillaume:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

but I forgot to say "it will delay verkle"
01:26:10	Marius van der Wijden:	Can we timebox this discussion maybe?
01:26:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "but I forgot to say ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:26:18	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "but I forgot to say ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:26:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

I miss the old Guillaume, the donâ€™t delay Verkle Guillaume
01:26:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "but I forgot to sa..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:26:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

you never know how good you have it until you lose it ğŸ˜¢
01:26:49	potuz:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..." with ğŸ™„
01:26:53	Carl Beekhuizen:	Replying to "Maria, Carl, was the..."

But I havenâ€™t run the numbers on the errors (which may be substantial, e.g. 2x scaling left on the table)
01:27:04	ignacio:	Reg the current Binary Tree proposal, this means we need to change this https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7864#code. Apart from the point of not depending on `address`, might have some other implications reg the first 128 chunks that we store in the account stem. Prob we still would need to do that, and for other code chunk indexes switch to a tree address that only depends on code_hash and not account address. 

So this means that there will still be some duplication introduced despite we might not be chargining it in this EIP.

 cc @GuillaumeÂ 
01:27:04	Guillaume:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

I'm still alive you know...
01:27:13	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "Can we timebox this ..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:16	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Yes I wanted to brin..." with ğŸ¤”
01:27:23	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..." with ğŸ¿
01:27:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "but I forgot to say ..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:28:09	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "I'm still alive you ..." with ğŸ•º
01:28:10	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

so you're saying i've got a week to PFI EOF for G*?
01:28:26	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "so you're saying i'v..." with ğŸš€
01:28:30	Jared Wasinger:	Reacted to "so you're saying i'v..." with ğŸš€
01:28:36	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "@jochem-brouwer ye..." met ğŸ‘
01:28:38	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..."

Eth to 10K once included
01:28:44	Guillaume:	Replying to "Reg the current Bina..."

the conversation we will have in the next SIC is precisely that we won't do this 128 thing. Eip 7864 will be updated when the decision is made
01:28:45	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Placeholder eips incoming
01:28:50	Francesco:	Reacted to "Placeholder eips inc..." with ğŸ‘€
01:28:53	nixo:	Reacted to "Placeholder eips inc..." with ğŸ‘€
01:28:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Placeholder eips inc..." with ğŸ‘€
01:28:57	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "itâ€™s a bit unfortuna..." with ğŸ¿
01:29:16	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "but I forgot to say ..." with ğŸ˜‚
