00:03:05	read.ai meeting notes:	Kai added read.ai meeting notes to the meeting.

Read provides AI generated meeting summaries to make meetings more effective and efficient. View our Privacy Policy at https://www.read.ai/pp

Type "read stop" to disable, or "opt out" to delete meeting data.
00:03:22	Jun:	gm
00:04:33	Bubbles Notetaker:	Hi, I'm taking notes and action items for Tamaghna Choudhuri.

Get Bubbles' AI meeting notetaker: https://bubbl.es/notetaker

Remove me: https://bubbl.es/remove-notetaker?t=4gETkwNjvkMnyqqVpnTHZvJ9yYuuWiPgB
00:05:22	Fireflies.ai Notetaker Fu Chua:	Talk to Fireflies: (Web-search enabled) â€¢ Say: Hey Fireflies how can you help? â€¢ Type: /ff help to get started.  View Realtime notes here: https://app.fireflies.ai/live/01K42TGF0CX73DZTGSWC267X2Z?ref=live_chat
00:06:05	Jun:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1712
00:10:13	unnawut:	Ah we also have to agree on the metrics. But since both ream and zeam have implemented metrics emitter already itâ€™s just a matter of agreeing what to measure.
00:10:35	unnawut:	Replying to "Ah we also have to a..."

We can/should do this after the fork choice specs is merged
00:14:33	Katya Riazantseva:	you will love it ğŸ˜„ Itâ€™s a great tool
00:15:27	unnawut:	If we canâ€™t run on kurtosis then we need an alternative solution which I think could be concerning?
00:15:47	Katya Riazantseva:	Reacted to "If we canâ€™t run on k..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:41	Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine:	Could you drop links of devnet branches of ream, zeam?
00:16:49	Will Corcoran:	https://github.com/b-wagn/hash-sig/pull/79
00:17:30	gajinder:	Replying to "Could you drop links..." 

 We zeam are just working and merging in main
00:17:31	Jun:	Replying to "Could you drop links..."

Ream is using  master  branch
00:18:06	Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine:	Replying to "Could you drop linksâ€¦"
Thanks!
00:20:14	Kamil Salakhiev:	Replying to "If we canâ€™t run on k..."

In theory, we may put our clients into the Shadow framework: specify clients execution commands in shadow configuration, provide genesis config and run. There will be no metrics, or block explorer, but if we just want to conveniently spin up a network it could be a way
00:22:43	Jun:	python spec code looks super clear and cool!
00:27:25	unnawut:	Replying to "If we canâ€™t run on k..."

Iâ€™ve never used shadow before. But say if the client instance is exposing metrics on a port, can an external service e.g. prometheus access that port?
00:31:09	Giacomo Fenzi:	Q: do we perform domain separation in the XMSS signatures? Is this part of the spec?
00:36:27	Will Corcoran:	FYI: Thomas is going to be one of the primary presenters - along with @Justin Drake @felipe and Emile on Friday during lean consensus call #7 - encore performance + deep dive :)
00:36:37	Ladislaus:	Reacted to "FYI: Thomas is going..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:51	Kamil Salakhiev:	What is going to be signature size with such configuration?
00:38:25	unnawut:	Replying to "What is going to be ..."

I got 3100 bytes for the prod config: https://github.com/leanEthereum/leanSpec/issues/14
00:38:33	Jun:	Reacted to "I got 3100 bytes for..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:35	Kamil Salakhiev:	Reacted to "I got 3100 bytes for..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:40	gajinder:	Reacted to I got 3100 bytes for... with "ğŸ‘"
00:40:39	Giacomo Fenzi:	Replying to "Q: do we perform dom..."

Thank you!
00:44:17	Will Corcoran:	Project board: https://github.com/orgs/leanEthereum/projects/1/views/2?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=leanEthereum%2Fpm
00:44:46	Katya Riazantseva:	Reacted to "Project board: https..." with ğŸ”¥
00:46:39	Will Corcoran:	@Kamil Salakhiev did you want to share any updates with your PQ aggregation simulation work?
00:47:07	Kamil Salakhiev:	Replying to "@Kamil Salakhiev did..."

I can do it really quick
00:47:12	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "I can do it really q..." with â¤ï¸
00:47:54	Gajinder Singh:	+1
00:53:46	Gajinder Singh:	thats a good simplification
00:53:57	unnawut:	Reacted to "thats a good simplif..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:01	Ladislaus:	Reacted to "thats a good simplif..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:33	felipe:	Reacted to "python spec code l..." with ğŸ’¯
00:56:47	Jun:	I can provide a quick update on pq devnet visualization app:

Kicked off with  leanView  naming ğŸ˜‚
Hope I can demo it next week.
While building this app, Iâ€™ve been adding new endpoints for fetching block header, block, etc. It will be great if thereâ€™s any common API interface with teams. But itâ€™ll be fine for just switching between client type in PQ Devnet 0.
00:57:12	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "I can provide a quic..." with ğŸ”¥
00:57:20	Will Corcoran:	Replying to "I can provide a quic..."

noted
00:57:35	Jun:	Replying to "I can provide a quic..."

Also changed status in the project board
00:57:41	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "Also changed status ..." with â¤ï¸
00:58:22	Bubbles Notetaker:	ğŸ”” Meeting scheduled to end in 5 mins. I'll stay until you're finished, and share a recording with notes for follow-ups.
00:58:30	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "I can provide a quic..."

can we just say that these are the beacon apis client need to implement in the devnet0
00:58:39	Will Corcoran:	Replying to "ğŸ”” Meeting scheduled..."

Thanks, bubbles
00:58:56	unnawut:	Reacted to "Thanks, bubbles" with ğŸ˜€
00:59:01	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "I can provide a quic..."

and similarly the events
00:59:03	Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari:	Reacted to "Thanks, bubbles" with ğŸ˜€
00:59:43	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "I can provide a quic..."

(and all ssz only)
01:00:07	Jun:	partially yes. I added two endpoints so far:

 /lean/v0/headers/{block_id} 
 /lean/v0/blocks/{block_id} 

I guess events are not necessary in this phase.
01:00:21	Gajinder Singh:	Reacted to "Thanks, bubbles" with ğŸ˜€
01:00:34	felipe:	Reacted to "Thanks, bubbles" with ğŸ˜€
01:00:41	Gajinder Singh:	Replying to "ğŸ”” Meeting scheduled..."

i hope it doesn't auto end the meeting
01:00:54	Jun:	Replying to "I can provide a quic..."

I might raise this issue on Zeam TG
01:01:03	Jun:	Reacted to "Thanks, bubbles" with ğŸ˜€
01:01:31	felipe:	Reacted to "ğŸ”” Meeting sched..." with ğŸ§¼
01:03:46	Kamil Salakhiev:	Link to the report: https://hackmd.io/@kamilsa/ry3sOVBLex
01:03:57	Justin Drake:	Reacted to "Link to the report: â€¦" with â¤ï¸
