00:05:24	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:05:32	Tim Beiko:	Gm!
00:05:38	nixo:	gm
00:05:39	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Gm
00:05:40	iPhone - Radek:	Gm
00:05:42	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Gm!" with ğŸ‘‹
00:05:43	spencer-tb:	Ga
00:06:10	nixo:	Reacted to "Ga" with ğŸŒ
00:06:13	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Ga" with ğŸŒ
00:11:12	Marius van der Wijden:	How far away are we from a fixed LH image?
00:13:35	FLCL:	yep Nethermind can't handle such reorgs, need resync ig
00:13:43	Tim Beiko:	BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION = round((MAX_BLOBS * GAS_PER_BLOB) / (2 * math.log(1.125)))
use max/target fractions that are exactly 3/2
00:13:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRAC..."

thats a different discussion
00:14:54	Francesco:	Just speaking strictly from the perspective of the 7918 check, this inconsistency doesnâ€™t matter (itâ€™s not important whether the reserve price used is the base fee of an actual block)
00:15:17	lightclient:	can 7918 use the current blockâ€™s excess blob gas field?
00:15:38	Anders Elowsson:	Yes. The effect is very minimal. And most of the time there will be no difference.
00:15:56	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "can 7918 use the c..."

no because this is a part of the excess computation itself?
00:16:00	lightclient:	i feel like we should use the current block instead of parent block then? is anyone against that?
00:16:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Sorry is the question whether the floor calculation should use the fee schedule of current or parent block?
00:16:23	Anders Elowsson:	No sorry. I meant the effect of doing it the two different ways that led to a fork
00:16:24	Francesco:	Reacted to "no because this is a..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:24	Roman:	Reacted to "i feel like we shoul..." with ğŸ‘
00:16:31	stokes:	Replying to "Sorry is the questio..."

yes
00:17:50	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Sorry is the questio..."

It can use the update fraction of either. There will be no issues
00:19:23	Francesco:	Like Felix said, we canâ€™t do that because the 7918 computation is how you compute the excess blob gas
00:19:42	Roman:	Reacted to "Like Felix said, we ..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:46	Roman:	Reacted to "Like Felix said, we ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:20:25	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

Canâ€™t do what sorry? Using the current block?
00:20:36	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

Yes
00:20:42	Francesco:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

Using current blockâ€™s excess blob gas
00:20:46	Roman:	Reacted to "Using current blockâ€™..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I really think we should use the latest parameters, but there is no reason to care about whether thatâ€™s a "natural basefee", thatâ€™s a meaningless concept
00:20:51	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

The calculation of the excess_gas is determined by the if statement
00:20:53	Francesco:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

Itâ€™s fine to use the current blockâ€™s update fraction
00:21:00	lightclient:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

i see
00:21:30	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:21:36	lightclient:	Replying to "Like Felix said, we ..."

okay well i suppose we will have 1 weird block where the base fee computed by 7918 doesnt match any known blob base fee
00:21:42	Roman:	Reacted to "I really think we sh..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:22:36	Barnabas:	we need to align today
00:22:39	Roman:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:40	Francesco:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:40	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with â•
00:22:41	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:42	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with â•
00:22:42	lightclient:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:42	Roman:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with â•
00:22:45	felix (eest):	Reacted to "we need to align t..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:46	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:46	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with â•
00:22:47	Guru:	Reacted to "we need to align tod..." with â•
00:23:03	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Yes it seems super silly
00:23:04	lightclient:	letâ€™s just use the current blockâ€™s fork parameters?
00:23:05	stokes:	Use current?
00:23:07	felipe:	Reacted to "we need to align t..." with â•
00:23:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use the c..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:10	Roman:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use the c..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:15	Guru:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use the c..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:18	draganrakita:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use the c..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:22	Francesco:	In this case itâ€™s fine either way, but fwiw the consensus-specs have a  get_blob_parameters  function that takes  epoch  as an input and can access the whole schedule. Regardless of what we decide now, I could see it being useful in the future for the execution-specs to have this ability as well
00:23:25	felipe:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use th..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:28	felix (eest):	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use th..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:32	Francesco:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use the c..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:41	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "letâ€™s just use the c..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:23:47	Guru:	Reacted to "In this case itâ€™s fi..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:51	spencer-tb:	Replying to "letâ€™s just use the c..."

Parent.max, parent.target & current.update?

Or current all?
00:24:11	lightclient:	Replying to "letâ€™s just use the c..."

current for all
00:24:15	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "current for all" with ğŸ™
00:24:20	lightclient:	Replying to "letâ€™s just use the c..."

itâ€™s already current for max / target yeah?
00:24:30	lightclient:	Replying to "letâ€™s just use the c..."

weâ€™re only debating the update fraction?
00:24:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	It should not be specified in 7918 though, but in the BPO EIP
00:25:13	draganrakita:	It will not hurt to add clarification to EIP
00:25:14	Francesco:	Replying to "It should not be spe..."

I am not sure about this, you could imagine wanting to do something different in a different case (e.g. you actually want the parentâ€™s basefee for something else)
00:25:21	felix (eest):	Reacted to "It will not hurt t..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:25	Francesco:	+1 on it not being clear
00:25:32	lightclient:	Reacted to "It will not hurt to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I donâ€™t think itâ€™s clear right now, I think gethâ€™s interpretation was valid
00:25:38	Francesco:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s c..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:40	Anders Elowsson:	We can fix it today
00:25:41	Milos:	Reacted to "+1 on it not being..." with â•
00:25:45	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s c..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:53	Anders Elowsson:	One of the authors, we will add a clarification, if this is the decision
00:25:59	lightclient:	Reacted to "We can fix it today" with ğŸš€
00:26:01	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "We can fix it today" with ğŸ‘
00:26:02	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "We can fix it today" with ğŸš€
00:26:04	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "We can fix it today" with ğŸš€
00:26:40	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "It should not be speâ€¦"
Yes the BPO EIP should explicitly specify how this affects each part of the protocol that uses any of the values being changed
00:26:58	Francesco:	Replying to "It should not be spe..."

And be modified every time something new comes up?
00:27:18	Roman:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s c..."

i agree that interpretation is valid
00:27:28	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "weâ€™re only debating ..." with ğŸ™
00:27:34	Roman:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think itâ€™s c..."

i think it comes from how original calculation was implemented
00:27:42	Ansgar Dietrichs:	No the precedent is that it needs to always be explicitly specified. Precedent shouldnâ€™t be to start assuming spec behavior implicitly
00:27:58	Mario Vega:	If you need to do  parentHeader.value  thatâ€™s ok, if you need to do  parentHeader.fork.value  that seems unnatural to me IMO
00:28:02	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "No the precedent is ..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:12	Csaba Kiraly:	I also think it was not clear â€¦ and we even have empirical proof now. So it is better specified explicitly.
00:28:32	FLCL:	Replying to "If you need to do  p..."

or ` fork(parentHeader).value`
00:28:37	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "or ` fork(parentHead..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:28:56	Guru:	Reacted to "or ` fork(parentHead..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:29:23	Marius van der Wijden:	How will blobbasefee work now?
00:29:39	lightclient:	Replying to "How will blobbasefee..."

should be unchanged?
00:29:45	Roman:	Reacted to "should be unchanged?" with â•
00:29:53	Guru:	Reacted to "should be unchanged?" with â•
00:29:58	lightclient:	Replying to "How will blobbasefee..."

use the current headerâ€™s fork config and excess when computing
00:30:09	Ben Adams:	Replying to "No the precedent is ..."

gas repricing, do we use prior blocks prices as that's where estimate_gas would have been done on? ;)
00:30:20	lightclient:	Reacted to "gas repricing, do we..." with ğŸ˜†
00:30:20	ethDreamer (Mark):	We are so spoiled on the consensus side with the spec lol
00:30:28	lightclient:	Reacted to "We are so spoiled on..." with ğŸ˜†
00:31:10	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "We are so spoiled on..." with ğŸ˜†
00:31:44	Anders Elowsson:	It essentially comes down to `get_base_fee_per_blob_gas
` referring the `BLOB_BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION
` without referring to the parent.. In Romanâ€™s interpretation
00:31:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We are so spoiled on..." with ğŸ˜†
00:32:17	Mega | Lambda:	Reacted to "We are so spoiled on..." with ğŸ˜†
00:32:20	draganrakita:	modexp when base/mod is zero was a similar issue, reth/base assumed min gas is spend as no calculation is done, and geth/nethermind would add additional gas depending on exp.
00:32:30	Csaba Kiraly:	+1 on pure functions as the longer term solution.
00:32:55	Roman:	Replying to "It essentially comes..."

this interpretation stems from EIP-7691 which says

The value BLOB_BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION_PRAGUE replaces its previous equivalent when processing the activation block. These changes imply that get_base_fee_per_blob_gas and calc_excess_blob_gas functions defined in EIP-4844 use the new values for the first block of the fork (and for all subsequent blocks).
00:33:24	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "It essentially comes..."

Yep. So it is very consistent with the spec in this regard.
00:33:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think that was not the case here though, right?
00:33:29	lightclient:	I think we should also encourage client teams to contributing to testing
00:33:31	Roman:	Reacted to "Yep. So it is very c..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:34	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think we should al..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:38	FLCL:	TFIed
00:33:39	draganrakita:	EIP versioning and changelog of changes would help ğŸ™‚
00:34:02	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "I think we should al..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:05	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "I think we should al..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:22	felix (eest):	Reacted to "I think we should ..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:44	lightclient:	Replying to "I think we should al..."

i definitely am at fault for this too where i will just implement the spec as i understand it, do some basic testing, then expect the testing team will do a lot of the heavy lifting
00:34:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think such process questions should be discussed async though.

But agree on value of having testing earlier in the loop
00:34:58	lightclient:	Replying to "I think we should al..."

i think this is becoming a pretty common mode of operation
00:35:11	Roman:	Reacted to "I think we should al..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:16	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think such process..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:35:36	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think we should al..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:46	stokes:	Im assuming we donâ€™t need to chat about the CL side of things at all
00:35:47	danceratopz:	Reacted to "EIP versioning and c..." with â¤ï¸
00:35:52	stokes:	(Just to pipeline a bit)
00:35:56	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

The
00:36:00	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

CL sync issues?
00:36:05	stokes:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

Yea w/ LH
00:36:13	stokes:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

Also may have missed in the very first minutes of call
00:36:16	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

Pawan said they were working on a fix, but IDK if there are more updates?
00:36:19	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Also may have missed..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:22	stokes:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

Yeah, just asking
00:36:26	raxhvl:	We're experimenting a format for BAL test cases before we implement them here: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/blob/feat/eip-7928/checklist/tests/unscheduled/eip7928_block_level_access_lists/checklist.md
00:36:30	danceratopz:	Replying to "EIP versioning and c..."

Appreciate the input.
00:36:36	raxhvl:	Reacted to EIP versioning and c... with "â¤ï¸"
00:36:44	Adrian (Lighthouse):	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

its not spec related, just internal issues, not sure its useful to discuss
00:36:46	Potuz:	I would rather have more flexibility and the sticking to 3/2 can be offchain without making it to consensus nor clients
00:36:47	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	this depends a bit if we want to stay with that ratio
00:36:48	Anders Elowsson:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1402683134406955008/1403433219185053716
00:37:09	Barnabas:	formula: BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION = round((MAX_BLOBS * GAS_PER_BLOB) / (2 * math.log(1.125)))
00:37:23	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would rather hav..."

yes
00:37:30	stokes:	Replying to "I would rather have ..."

It can be informal but could be nice to have an agreement here
00:37:33	stokes:	Replying to "I would rather have ..."

â€œSocial layer"
00:37:42	pawan:	Replying to "Im assuming we donâ€™t..."

Yeah basically that, We need time to figure out the sync issues and sync reliably
00:37:48	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would rather hav..."

yes social agreement, not enforced in code
00:37:54	stokes:	Replying to "I would rather have ..."

yep
00:37:57	Potuz:	Replying to "I would rather have ..."

exactly my point yues
00:38:04	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "I would rather have ..."

+1
00:38:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Like pragmatically 2:3 is reasonable, but not sure what we gain from precommitting to that
00:38:32	Anders Elowsson:	The point of this formula is 
 BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION = round((MAX_BLOBS * GAS_PER_BLOB) / (2 * math.log(1.125)))

Is that it is general. It works for any ratio
00:38:48	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "I would rather have ..."

I donâ€™t think we have a good justification for the ratio at the moment, hence fixing it would be premature.
00:39:05	Francesco:	What is the benefit?
00:39:09	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "The point of this fo..."

It generalizes both 4844 and 7691
00:39:19	stokes:	Replying to "What is the benefit?"

Simpler to orchestrate devnets etc
00:39:38	stokes:	I think we can say we generally follow this pattern, but reserve the right to deviate
00:39:47	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think we can say w..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:48	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I think we can say w..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:51	Anders Elowsson:	The formula is a generalization!
00:39:51	stokes:	Yeah +1 to ansgar
00:39:54	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "I think we can say w..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:06	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I think we can say..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:38	Anders Elowsson:	What is the formula you are discussing right now?
00:40:55	Csaba Kiraly:	I would say it is a dimension we had no time to explore yet fully, or to understand how it changes system properties.
00:41:08	stokes:	Reacted to "I would say it is a ..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:11	Barnabas:	enshrined in testing
00:41:16	stokes:	Reacted to "enshrined in testing" with ğŸ”¥
00:41:16	pk910:	the question comes from the genesis generator.  we need the value there  and have been statically setting it there.
we've switched to the formula by default now,  but it can be overridden via custom params
00:41:20	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "enshrined in testing" with ğŸ”¥
00:41:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	We can consider enshrining it, but then we should do that as a function of the target and max, and choose what behavior it should have for different ratios
00:41:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We can consider enshâ€¦"
And thatâ€™s not trivial to do
00:41:53	Anders Elowsson:	Hi can someone answer. What formula are we discussing?
00:41:56	Potuz:	Anders I think there has been a confusion between your proposal and Barnabas  since your proposal would accept any ratio
00:42:02	Csaba Kiraly:	As usual, we could do test where we just explore this dimension. However, we donâ€™t need to this, because we are in control of this parameter.
00:42:23	stokes:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

Can we rely on this invariant that max : target is 3:2
00:42:37	stokes:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

And if so that gives us a formula to compute the base fee update fraction as well
00:42:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think itâ€™s fine to exclusively use that for testing. No need to test things we wonâ€™t actually do
00:42:57	stokes:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s fine to..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:21	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

The formula that was specified in the discussion was for any ratio, it will not matter. But yeah, the exact ratio might be changed after Fusaka
00:43:23	Csaba Kiraly:	BTW, I think we will change this later on. It is just not at the level of optimizations we need now.
00:43:43	stokes:	Let me try to paste here
00:43:45	stokes:	8th Sep: client releases for sepolia (and holesky if needed); bug bounty begins
15th Sep: Holesky fork (can provide branch, no releases needed)
29th Sep: Sepolia fork
1st Oct: Hoodi and mainnet releases
8th Oct: Hoodi fork
5th Nov: Mainnet
00:43:52	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s fine to..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hi can someone answeâ€¦"
Oh I see, I wasnâ€™t aware
00:44:21	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

Itâ€™s a generalisation of 4844 and 7691
00:44:22	pawan:	Replying to "8th Sep: client rele..."

We are not comfortable with this timeline at least until we figure out and  fix our sync issues
00:44:30	lightclient:	Reacted to "We are not comfortab..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:34	stokes:	Replying to "8th Sep: client rele..."

roger
00:44:46	Dustin:	the Holesky fork is explicitly specified in Alex's comment about not necessarily being a regular release
00:44:52	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

It will give satisfactory output for the update_fraction whatever ratio we input
00:45:00	Dustin:	contra Tim's summary
00:45:09	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "contra Tim's summary"

Sorry yes, good catch
00:45:45	Tim Beiko:	Is there a big overhead to making proper releases?
00:46:46	Anders Elowsson:	I think Barnabas just reposted mine? Or does â€œformulaâ€ specifically refer to 3:2 ratio. Thatâ€™s not a formulae thatâ€™s a ratio
00:46:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hi can someone answeâ€¦"
Interesting. I do think that can be a good idea. I donâ€™t think there is a rush to enshrine this though
00:47:13	stokes:	Replying to "Is there a big overh..."

I think not so much, but the process of getting there can be bigger
00:47:23	Potuz:	Replying to "Anders I think there..."

I think Barnabas posted your formula but stated specificallty the 2/3 ratio which is what prompted our rage
00:47:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I think Barnabas posâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:47:45	Justin Florentine (Besu):	do we need a Devnet 5 or no?
00:47:51	Dustin:	testing/confidence in stability/etc.
 
it's not just how hard it is to press the button
00:47:55	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "8th Sep: client rele..."

We were tracking fine until the sync issues. As soon as we iron those out we would be better able to set a firm date.
00:47:59	Phil Ngo:	Likewise still dealing with handling forky conditions discovered with devnet-4 non-finality which is really good
00:48:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Anders I think thereâ€¦"
Ah yes it confused me at least, then I think my comments were not fully applicable actually
00:49:00	Marius van der Wijden:	I think that depends on if devnet-4 is resurrected cleanly
00:49:01	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Anders I think there..."

We do not need to enshrine 3:2, but it is rather likely that we will wish to use this formula. For sure we might change it but it is a very general way to approach the whole system. And having this as a agreed-upon formula can therefore be very useful
00:49:04	Barnabas:	I have a feeling that we gonna need devnet-5
00:49:09	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:12	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I have a feeling t..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:15	Francesco:	What is going to happen to devnet-4? Is it going to continue past Friday if it is resurrected?
00:49:16	lightclient:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:17	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:18	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:22	ethDreamer (Mark):	Need to keep the focus and urgency on Fusaka but at the same time weâ€™re not gonna ship something broken
00:49:28	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:35	lightclient:	Reacted to "Need to keep the foc..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:38	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I have a feeling tha..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:48	Francesco:	And if there is a devnet-5, will it be as big as devnet-4?
00:49:51	ethDreamer (Mark):	Treat every devnet like itâ€™s your last ğŸ˜‚
00:49:57	pawan:	Reacted to "And if there is a de..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:01	pawan:	Reacted to "Need to keep the foc..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:15	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

Perhaps I would say, it can can be useful to have it as a default going forward, but we can still be open to changing it.
00:50:22	felipe:	Reacted to "I have a feeling t..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Dumb question, if we have to delay for an extra week, would a mainnet fork during devconnect be a dumb idea? Given that devconnect this year will be so light on protocol/ infrastructure events, and many core devs wonâ€™t even be there.
00:50:30	pawan:	Replying to "What is going to hap..."

We want to keep it around, its super valuable for testing the sync scenarios
00:50:33	Barnabas:	Replying to "Dumb question, if we..."

yes
00:50:34	James He:	We still have a good amount of stuff to get done I think, we might be able to make it  but itâ€™s going to be very close I think
00:50:39	marek:	Reacted to "yes" with ğŸ‘
00:50:41	Adrian (Lighthouse):	sprry
00:50:42	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "Anders I think there..."

Ah, thatâ€™s confusing. Can you paste a link to the formula?
00:50:45	Adrian (Lighthouse):	let me fix mic
00:50:54	stokes:	Replying to "Dumb question, if we..."

Its possible but we have learned w/ pectra to not schedule forks during events
00:50:55	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Anders I think there..."

https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1402683134406955008/1403433219185053716
00:51:12	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "And if there is a de..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:12	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Anders I think there..."

`BASE_FEE_UPDATE_FRACTION = round((MAX_BLOBS * GAS_PER_BLOB) / (2 * math.log(1.125)))`
00:51:28	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Dumb question, if weâ€¦"
Right. I meant more it looks like devconnect really isnâ€™t much of a core dev event this year anyway
00:51:38	stokes:	Replying to "Dumb question, if we..."

Yeah, thatâ€™s where the idea is more reasonable
00:51:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Dumb question, if weâ€¦"
But still, fair point. Just wanted to check
00:51:45	J Sunnyside Labs:	Replying to "And if there is a de..."

Sunnyside Labs will be also launching as big as devnet-4
00:51:47	stokes:	Replying to "Dumb question, if we..."

But still, I at least have PTSD from pectra ğŸ˜…
00:51:59	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "https://discord.com/..." with ğŸ™
00:52:16	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Anders I think there..."

@Csaba Kiraly itâ€™s just a generalisation of what we have done every fork from the beginning, without expressing it mathematically
00:52:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hi can someone answeâ€¦"
Right, but that doesnâ€™t motivate enshrining it into protocol logic, with all the overhead that comes with
00:52:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hi can someone answeâ€¦"
It was presented as a proposal for enshrining, not just as a standard for defaults going forward
00:53:06	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Need to keep the focâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:53:07	Barnabas:	we used https://clientdiversity.org
00:53:11	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "Hi can someone answe..."

Sure, it seems reasonable to wait a bit
00:53:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Dumb question, if ..."

We would like to have people update their nodes if anything goes really wrong, so having everyone in person, away from their nodes is a bit yank imo
00:53:57	Marius van der Wijden:	Can you just allocate keys to them and let the teams run their own nodes?
00:54:09	Potuz:	I think for staking those sites have bad data, for full nodes it may be fine
00:54:21	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "I think Barnabas pos..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:54:23	Potuz:	I think relays will have better data on staking nodes
00:54:36	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can you just allocat..."

too much coordination overhead
00:54:43	Minhyuk Kim:	Sunnyside has been also running more non-validating nodes for minor clients as well - like 5-6 nodes per client combination
00:54:52	marek:	Reacted to "We would like to hav..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:57	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "I think relays will ..." with ğŸ«¡
00:55:11	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Interesting. I do th..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:12	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think for staking ..."

again, they are not perfect, but its the best we have available today
00:55:31	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

if you have better sources of this, then feel free to share, happy to take a look
00:55:34	stokes:	Sounds good to me
00:56:26	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

We see 38% of registered validators using lighthouse, 27% prysm. But 12% as vouch that donâ€™t get CL user agents from.
00:56:48	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

That should cover 90%+ of validators
00:56:57	Ben Adams:	Block Level Access Lists has a good website for an EIP https://blockaccesslist.xyz/
00:57:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs
00:57:13	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:18	Roman:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:21	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:26	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:29	marek:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:32	felipe:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ï¿½..." with ğŸš€
00:57:34	Guru:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:34	Justin Florentine (Besu):	BALs + FOCIL lfg
00:57:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	But I do think the most important will be repricings. But that will be more a basket of EIPs, doesnâ€™t make for a good headliner
00:57:44	Barnabas:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:57:44	Karim T.:	Reacted to "BALs + FOCIL lfg" with â•
00:57:49	stokes:	Just FYI: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/10117
00:57:50	soispoke:	Reacted to "BALs + FOCIL lfg" with â•
00:57:53	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "BALs + FOCIL lfg" with â•
00:58:06	felix (eest):	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ï¿½..." with ğŸš€
00:58:15	Jihoon:	Reacted to "BALs + FOCIL lfg" with â•
00:58:17	Mario Vega:	Replying to "But I do think the m..."

Could someone that is championing gas repricing EIPs reach out to the testing team so we can coordinate pls?
00:58:22	Ben Adams:	Replying to "But I do think the m..."

Do they take effect based on parent block or current block ğŸ˜‰
00:58:27	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "Block Level Access L..." with ğŸ”¥
00:58:38	Potuz:	setting a timeline target will really help in making it easier to agree on the scope. However I suspect that agreeing on the timeline may be equal to agreeing on focil inclusion
00:58:41	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Could someone that i..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	In terms of fork delivery, I think we should aim for

Mar - Interop
Apr - releases
Jun - mainnet
00:58:51	soispoke:	Iâ€™d love to have a discussion around committing to including FOCIL if it doesnâ€™t delay the fork by N months 

So people donâ€™t have to deal with two branch logistics and having a feature that is "not fully committed" to the fork.
00:59:10	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Do they take effec..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:10	stokes:	Reacted to "setting a timeline t..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:12	soispoke:	Reacted to "setting a timeline t..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:15	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Do they take effect ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:21	draganrakita:	Reacted to "Block Level Access L..." with ğŸ”¥
00:59:22	draganrakita:	Reacted to "BALs ğŸ‰ BALs ğŸ‰BALs" with ğŸš€
00:59:24	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "In terms of fork del..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:27	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "In terms of fork del..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:28	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "In terms of fork del..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:42	lightclient:	what is the status of the hardening effort?
00:59:49	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

So itâ€™s very likely 70%+
01:00:20	terence:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

interesting, 12% as vouch feels a lot
01:00:33	Potuz:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

I'm very surprised of the difference between flashbots numbers and Bloxroutes
01:00:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	For process, would we discuss FOCIL here or on acdc or both?
01:00:52	stokes:	Replying to "For process, would w..."

It is cross layer
01:00:55	terence:	Replying to "For process, would w..."

FOCIL is both
01:01:02	Potuz:	it touches deeply both I think
01:01:03	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

What are bloxroutes numbers?
01:01:12	Potuz:	but it's more invasive on the CL as far as I can guess
01:01:25	terence:	Replying to "For process, would w..."

I'd say it's 65% on CL and 35% on EL
01:01:26	Roman:	Reacted to "but it's more invasi..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "For process, would wâ€¦"
Right, but we primarily discuss it in context of ePBS
01:01:52	Potuz:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

I'll DM you later after all these calls
01:01:53	Roman:	Replying to "but it's more invasi..."

i think so too, EL implementation is much smaller than introducing new validator role
01:02:06	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "I'll DM you later af..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:22	draganrakita:	Maybe we can delay not headliner EIPs inclusion for few months so we can check headliners first and have better grasp how much time we will have for other EIPs.
01:02:32	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Maybe we can delay n..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:52	stokes:	FOCIL already CFI
01:02:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "FOCIL already CFI" with â•
01:02:57	soispoke:	I thought it was already CFIed
01:03:02	Jihoon:	Replying to "but it's more invasi..."

FYI, an EPF fellow already shared a Reth prototype that looks like near interop today
01:03:03	stokes:	But, to timâ€™s point â€” we should only work on SFI for now
01:03:12	Roman:	Reacted to "FYI, an EPF fellow a..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:30	stokes:	FOCIL champions can look at complexity to layer on top of epbs
01:03:36	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "But, to timâ€™s point ..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:41	stokes:	But should not IMO be the bulk of anyoneâ€™s attention
01:03:45	soispoke:	Replying to "FOCIL champions can ..."

Yeah doing this now
01:04:12	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

could we have them as a public convo and not a dm?
01:04:26	Carl Beekhuizen:	Reacted to "But, to timâ€™s point ..." with ğŸ‘
01:04:27	Roman:	Replying to "but it's more invasi..."

got a link?
01:04:53	terence:	Replying to "but it's more invasi..."

https://github.com/PelleKrab/reth/tree/focil_impl
01:04:59	Roman:	Replying to "but it's more invasi..."

ty ty
01:05:30	Jihoon:	Replying to "FOCIL champions can ..."

On top of this, FOCIL is already in contact with testing team. A document that lay outs test cases thoroughly will be published later, which will facilitate testing a lot.
01:05:33	Tim Beiko:	Glamderstam-devnet-1: EPBS & BALs
01:06:03	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "I think relays will ..."

We can post something publicly for stats / discussion. But Iâ€™m on vacation for three weeks after tomorrow, so timeline is probably slow.
01:06:41	Barnabas:	Iâ€™d have separate devnets first, so we can reduce the breaking surface.

I would propose to have epbs-devnet-0 and bal-devnet-0 on last week of sep latest.
01:06:54	Barnabas:	and then maybe in november we can have glamsterdam-devnet-0
01:07:34	stokes:	Fusaka mainnet
01:07:40	stokes:	Lets defer the rest of the glam convo for now
01:07:42	Francesco:	Later than August 21 definitely
01:07:55	Potuz:	Replying to "Iâ€™d have separate de..."

BALS and ePBS are completely orhogonal so I'd just target one devnet 0 with a minimal spec
01:07:57	terence:	Replying to "and then maybe in no..."

i think we can do it in oct but just speaking on behave of prysm
01:07:58	Potuz:	Replying to "Iâ€™d have separate de..."

that has both
01:08:26	Barnabas:	Replying to "Iâ€™d have separate de..."

having them separate allows us to launch them independently
01:08:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Hard stop or soft stop? Usually we still have a time where you can propose eips with special justification why they should still be considered
01:08:37	Barnabas:	Replying to "Iâ€™d have separate de..."

without having one wait for the other
01:08:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Hard stop or soft stâ€¦"
Just flips the default
01:08:50	Milos:	Does ePBS changes and how much based on whether FOCIL is included as well?
01:08:56	Potuz:	Replying to "and then maybe in no..."

I think late Oct or November for devnet 0 is a good target
01:09:03	Potuz:	Replying to "and then maybe in no..."

if we have two clients is already good enough
01:09:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "and then maybe in noâ€¦" with ğŸ”¥
01:09:20	Potuz:	yes, ePBS changes a bit
01:09:24	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Hard stop or soft st..."

We can always make exceptions, but I think we should be clear that the Fusaka mainnet releases are the deadline to everyone.
01:09:33	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Hard stop or soft st..."

Should be a very high bar to add things after that
01:09:38	Potuz:	Focil makes it change even how we communicate with the engine
01:10:23	Jared Wasinger:	State locations means accounts and storage that arenâ€™t modified here
01:10:57	Jihoon:	Replying to "Does ePBS changes an..."

You might want to take a look into this one to get the sense: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4493
01:11:03	Potuz:	Replying to "Iâ€™d have separate de..."

if the extra money and coordination of having to check 2 devnets in parallel is not a problem then that's fine by me, I would have assumed that having only one would be simpler for you
01:11:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Itâ€™s not just about batch loads (as in more efficient i/o), itâ€™s also about not having to block when reaching a state load during execution
01:11:34	Potuz:	Replying to "Does ePBS changes an..."

I think this will change a bit once we fully rebase ePBS on top of Fulu
01:11:36	Jihoon:	Reacted to "https://github.com/P..." with ğŸ‘
01:12:48	FLCL:	locations !=changes?
01:13:02	Marius van der Wijden:	This is just for reads, right?
01:13:04	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "locations !=changes?" with ğŸ‘
01:13:06	Csaba Kiraly:	These are the addresses read only, but not written, right?
01:13:35	Jared Wasinger:	Replying to "Itâ€™s not just about ..."

It doesnâ€™t have to block necessarily.  It can yield the CPU to another transaction while being IO blocked
01:13:47	Jared Wasinger:	Replying to "These are the addres..."

yes
01:13:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I donâ€™t think we should make a decision today, but we should agree that the state diff part of BALs is the only part already fully guaranteed to be included. The state locations part is tbd
01:13:59	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:00	Jared Wasinger:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:02	Jihoon:	Replying to "Does ePBS changes an..."

Yes I'm not using this one as a source-of-truth but it could give the sense how the changes would look like
01:14:24	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think we shoâ€¦"
Question is just, should we pull that part out into a separate EIP then and only CFI it?
01:14:39	Francesco:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:41	Gary Schulte:	adding reads allows for i/o improvements without parallelizing transactions.  It would be beneficial in worst case block execution when no txs are parallelizable
01:15:33	Francesco:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

With BAL there is no such worst case, txs are always parallelizable
01:15:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Itâ€™s not just about â€¦"
Right but a worst case block would align transactions to minimize useful parallel execution
01:15:46	Gary Schulte:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

they canâ€™t parallelize if they mutate the same state
01:15:47	Potuz:	SSZ will be much better for the CL, it enables a lot of things like committing to different parts of the payload independently on the ePBS bid.
01:15:59	Jared Wasinger:	I vote postpone.  Itâ€™s so much simpler if we go with RLP
01:16:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Itâ€™s not just about â€¦"
It makes it hard to reason about worst case throughput
01:16:01	Roman:	Reacted to "SSZ will be much bet..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:04	Karim T.:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

If you have the write you can do parallelization
01:16:04	Roman:	Reacted to "I vote postpone.  It..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:04	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I vote postpone.  It..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:08	Francesco:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

You are given the writes, so you can execute them independently
01:16:13	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "SSZ will be much bet..."

Why does the CL care about BALs?
01:16:18	Roman:	Reacted to "Why does the CL care..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:24	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Why does the CL care..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:27	Potuz:	Replying to "SSZ will be much bet..."

not BALs, but having SSZ on the EL eventuallyu
01:16:33	Roman:	Reacted to "not BALs, but having..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:39	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "This is just for rea..."

right yeah
01:16:52	Cayman Nava:	Pureth H-Star Headliner ğŸ•Šï¸
01:17:01	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

Only if you have the write at the transaction level
01:17:14	Roman:	heavy +1 to Justin
01:17:17	Sophia Gold:	We will never have the dev capacity to convert everything to SSZ. Better to commit to not adding new RLP encodings
01:17:20	Dustin:	There are lots of Go SSZ libraries
01:17:21	Francesco:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

You do
01:17:30	Dustin:	At some what, what makes one happy?
01:17:35	Som - Erigon:	Golang is history, we embrace Zig
01:17:36	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

And the read here is just location, but the write is data, right? If so, we should clear our terminology :-)
01:17:40	Potuz:	Peter's influence :)
01:17:41	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "There are lots of ..."

His comment is about "good" ssz libraries
01:17:48	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "His comment is about..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:17:49	Ansgar Dietrichs:	On state locations - probably not in time for Glamsterdam, but we could consider prioritizing propagating them ahead of main payload, so clients can start prefetching all state and have it loaded by the time they start main execution
01:17:56	Potuz:	I'm pretty sure Claude can write a good SSZ library in Go in less than a day
01:17:59	James He:	Stable containers
01:18:02	stokes:	Reacted to "I'm pretty sure Clau..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:03	Dustin:	"stablecontainer", etc
01:18:04	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think we sho..."

yeah I'd do that if we take it out. I think removing it will be easier than adding it
01:18:10	Karim T.:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

Yes we have write in the transaction level
01:18:20	Roman:	Replying to "I'm pretty sure Clau..."

can claude be a core dev?
01:18:21	Karim T.:	Write is data 
read only location
01:18:30	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

OK, so if it is written multiple times, we have all data changes in, right?
01:18:33	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "I'm pretty sure Clau..."

Already is
01:18:33	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I'm pretty sure Clau..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:18:38	Potuz:	Reacted to "Already is" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:18:42	Roman:	Reacted to "Already is" with ğŸ¤
01:18:47	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "Yes we have write in..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:50	Karim T.:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

Yes for each transaction
01:18:59	Csaba Kiraly:	Reacted to "Yes for each transac..." with ğŸ‘
01:19:03	Karim T.:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

Itâ€™s the only way to have 100% //
01:19:28	ignacio:	Replying to "I'm pretty sure Clau..."

Youâ€™re absolutely right!
01:19:30	Josh Davis:	Replying to "I'm pretty sure Clau..."

Claude for PG
01:19:34	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Youâ€™re absolutely..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:19:41	pk910:	stablecontainers are deprecated anyway.  progressive containers are the hot stuff now :D
01:19:42	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Already is" with ğŸ¤
01:19:45	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Claude for PG" with â•
01:19:46	Guillaume:	Replying to "I'm pretty sure Clau..."

show us
01:19:50	stokes:	Reacted to "Youâ€™re absolutely ri..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:19:53	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "stablecontainers are..." with ğŸ‘€
01:19:56	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "show us" with ğŸ˜†
01:20:12	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "stablecontainers are..." with ğŸ‘
01:20:14	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "Already is" with ğŸ˜†
01:20:19	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

Clear, I just wasnâ€™t sure weâ€™ve made that selection (simply not aware of the datails)
01:20:35	FLCL:	Reacted to "stablecontainers are..." with ğŸ¤¯
01:20:39	frangio:	is this the new EOF?
01:20:45	Jihoon:	Replying to "I'm pretty sure Clau..."

https://x.com/josephdelong/status/1235979765879844864
01:21:05	Potuz:	It's been more than 3 years, surely someone could have written that library by now...
01:21:44	felipe:	Reacted to "I'm pretty sure Cl..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:21:53	felipe:	Reacted to "Already is" with ğŸ’¯
01:22:14	Dustin:	Reacted to "stablecontainers a..." with ğŸ‘
01:23:08	felipe:	Reacted to "show us" with ğŸ˜†
01:23:08	pk910:	we have several go ssz libraries  for different use cases.
if looking at performance, you can use the very fast code generatosrs,  if performance is not the highest prio I have a dynamic-ssz lib too.

both are feature complete and work fine..  Not even talking about the other go ssz libs..
Btw, all json parsing is WAAAY slower in go..  so what are we comparing against to find a good ssz lib?
01:23:23	Jared Wasinger:	Replying to "Itâ€™s not just about ..."

The state reads are not currently specced to specify which transactions they occur in.
01:23:26	Roman:	the nasty thing is that w/o history expiry we cannot remove RLP even in full nodes, let alone never removing in archive nodes
01:23:38	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "the nasty thing is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:24:24	Potuz:	Reacted to "the nasty thing is t..." with ğŸ‘
01:24:33	Tim Beiko:	In this specific case, do we want to delay BALs/Glamsterdam because of SSZ?
01:24:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	hard no
01:24:44	Marius van der Wijden:	Also we have not prioritized building a good library
01:24:46	Roman:	Reacted to "hard no" with ğŸ‘
01:24:52	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "hard no" with ğŸ‘
01:24:59	Guillaume:	Replying to "Also we have not pri..."

yes we have
01:25:07	Csaba Kiraly:	Replying to "I donâ€™t think we sho..."

Iâ€™m wondering whether thatâ€™s an actual throughput improvement on the long run.
It uses up bandwidth at a critical time, while it does not save CPU time (just improves parallelisation).
01:25:22	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

this is the key point for me
01:25:50	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

IMO the wait-for-big-SSZ-headliner is likely to run into the not-scaling/etc objections
01:26:00	Potuz:	I do not think there will ever be a "good library". SSZ is not something that can be plugged easily on any client, a good library for geth may not be good for Prysm and viceversa. I think that geth needs is to write their own library. There used to be a joint effort among Marius and Kasey, don
01:26:11	Potuz:	don't know where that ended up
01:26:11	Cayman Nava:	Pureth meta-EIP dealing with provability of the chain in general (Includes ssz-ing all the things)

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7919
01:26:11	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

But maybe that just means we actually donâ€™t value moving to SSZ above those things?
01:26:31	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Pureth meta-EIP deal..." with ğŸ‘
01:26:48	Karim T.:	Replying to "adding reads allows ..."

More thinking more for me read location is not really important
01:27:02	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

I mean, on the EL side, that's demonstrably true, in terms of revealed preferences
01:27:03	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Pureth meta-EIP deal..."

I think ACD agreeing on Puerth inclusion would be right signal for us to move to SSZ on the EL, rather than adding it bit by bit.
01:27:08	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "I mean, on the EL si..." with ğŸ‘
01:27:34	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

There's ust this kabuki thing about it, the objections are perpetually insubstantial, procedural, and yet it keeps not happening
01:27:55	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

And yes, I count the Go SSZ library objection as at this point borderline farcical
01:28:00	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "And yes, I count the..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:27	Karim T.:	I think index of the transaction in the block and in BAL should be the same
01:28:33	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "We will never have t..."

it's purely capacity, not technical.
01:28:36	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "I think ACD agreeing..." with ğŸ‘
01:28:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "We will never have t..."

we aren't good at making hard decisions/sacrifices
01:29:28	Guillaume:	Reacted to "And yes, I count the..." with ğŸ§»
01:29:30	Potuz:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

I tend agree with Tim, this will only happen if we make it a headliner, but the problem is that I hardly see ACD ever making it a headliner
01:29:53	Mario Vega:	But then the tooling would have to be updated each time we add a systemcontract at the start of block execution
01:29:55	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

the problem is that I hardly see ACD ever making it a headliner

But maybe thatâ€™s not actually a problem?
01:30:00	Guillaume:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

somehow we have the capacity to write a good ssz lib but not the capacity to convert from one format to the next? gimme a break
01:30:13	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "But then the tooli..."

no it's just one index for all the calls
01:30:13	Karim T.:	List(pre, list(trx), post) Not possible something like that ?
01:30:25	Guillaume:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

@Dustin ok we're watching you write one then
01:30:38	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "no it's just one ind..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:30:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "But then the tooling..."

right now it's one index but 2 might make sense
01:31:06	Potuz:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

Guillaume: as I wrote above, you guys need to do this, because no one will ever write a "generic" SSZ library that will adapt to whatever geth type system uses
01:31:09	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

Guillaume: in general, yeah, dealig with legacy data is a different kind of problem than dealing with a serde in a standalone way
01:31:59	Cayman Nava:	Replying to "We will never have t..."

imo poor chain provability is a big problem... for privacy and for UX of integrating ethereum into the real world
01:32:42	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

@Cayman the basic argument I put forward in Nimbus's pushing for Pureth as an EL headliner was that the alternative has been pointing people to untrustworthy RPCs yeah
01:33:05	Potuz:	Reacted to "imo poor chain prova..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:33:10	Dustin:	Reacted to "imo poor chain pro..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:33:18	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

And, right now it's easy-ish to follow full consensus/execution chain. But with the scaling people want it will become less easy
01:33:22	Roman:	letâ€™s not call it transaction index!
01:33:35	Roman:	state transition index
01:33:40	Marius van der Wijden:	I think there should be a BAL breakout
01:33:44	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "state transition ind..." with ğŸ‘
01:33:47	Dustin:	Replying to "We will never have..."

So this enables scaling by decoupling trustless/minimized chain access from scaling
01:33:49	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:33:51	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with â•
01:33:53	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with â•
01:33:55	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:34:03	Cayman Nava:	Reacted to "So this enables scal..." with ğŸ‘
01:34:14	Csaba Kiraly:	One things read locations give is to tell whether a block is dependent on a previous block. I listed that property in my block level acesss filter proposal.

Not sure it is useful here :-)
01:34:15	Francesco:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with ğŸ
01:34:26	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "One things read loca..." with ğŸ‘
01:34:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:34:39	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to "I think there should..." with ğŸ
01:34:54	Potuz:	it can be done on ACDC as well right
01:35:02	felipe:	Reacted to "His comment is abo..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:35:11	felipe:	Reacted to "I think there shou..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:35:11	terence:	i think the question is more on engine API and how EL uses safe head field other than RPC
01:35:38	Potuz:	Reacted to "i think the question..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:35:48	Potuz:	we do not use justified FWIW
01:35:52	Potuz:	haven't for years
01:35:59	terence:	Ya, I already talked about this in ACDT
01:36:02	Marius van der Wijden:	I don't know anyone that relies on safe block being justified
01:36:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Without much context, reusing safe block seems fine
01:36:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Without much conte..." with ğŸ‘
01:36:48	Potuz:	It can be dangerous
01:36:59	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "I don't know anyone ..." with ğŸ‘
01:37:04	Potuz:	Arbitrum uses safe now, not sure if they'll be happy going to fast confirmed
