00:05:18	Pooja Ranjan:	We are Live!
00:05:22	Christine Kim:	ooo barnabas hosting today?
00:05:54	Barnabas:	https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io
00:05:55	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "ooo barnabas hosting..."

Bringing out the whip
00:06:10	Christine Kim:	Reacted to "Bringing out the whi..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:06:51	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "Bringing out the whi..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:06:52	Justin Florentine (Besu):	how long did it take us to finally re-finalize?
00:07:23	Barnabas:	We have a new validator summary page view on dora: https://dora.fusaka-devnet-3.ethpandaops.io/validators/summary
00:07:43	Barnabas:	Replying to "how long did it take..."

6 days
00:08:58	Barnabas:	Summary of the bugs: https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-syncing-bugs
00:09:34	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "6 days" with ğŸ¤
00:10:14	Roman:	iâ€™m also taking a look
00:10:17	Roman:	at that pair
00:10:29	Dmitrii Shmatko:	Reacted to "iâ€™m also taking a lo..." with ğŸ‘
00:12:55	Ben Adams:	Nethermind: no reported issues
00:13:02	Barnabas:	lack of backfill shouldnâ€™t be a blocker.
00:13:09	James He:	We are also missing some api endpoints that arenâ€™t mandatory
00:13:18	Manu:	Reacted to "lack of backfill sho..." with ğŸ‘
00:13:22	James He:	And web3signer changes*
00:13:42	James He:	Reacted to "lack of backfill sho..." with ğŸ‘
00:13:42	Manu:	(W3S is not tested in the devnet)
00:18:27	lightclient:	also still looking into this regression in the syncing bugs doc, related to our state history feature and not fusaka though
00:20:47	Åukasz Rozmej:	We could do Holesky release 
00:20:51	Roman:	have we decided on the timestamp?
00:21:05	lightclient:	plausible, but would need to discuss w team
00:21:17	Roman:	so, Thu -> Mon for release?
00:21:29	Barnabas:	too soon?
00:22:07	pawan:	We can do a rc release I think
00:22:11	Phil Ngo:	Possible. Will confirm
00:22:17	Roman:	i donâ€™t mind, that would just be close to our current release, but this shouldnâ€™t impact the decision to proceed quicker with the holesky fork
00:22:18	pawan:	But need to check with the rest of the team as well
00:22:35	Manu:	Have to check with the rest of the team as well
00:23:06	Matthew Keil:	Reacted to "Possible. Will confi..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:21	Agnish Ghosh:	need to check with team
00:23:38	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Early next week we can, maybe not Mon but Wed should be good
00:24:17	Barnabas:	Lets aim for 22nd for pre-releases that could include holesky timestamp and bpos
00:24:30	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "Lets aim for 22nd fo..."

Good for us
00:24:51	Åukasz Rozmej:	Kamil is on vacation AFAIK
00:24:55	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Kamil is on vacation..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:24:56	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Kamil is on vacati..." met ğŸ‘
00:25:06	Louis:	Reacted to "Kamil is on vacation..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:07	Louis:	Reacted to "Kamil is on vacation..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:27:28	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/releases/tag/bal%40v1.0.0
00:27:34	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with ğŸ”¥
00:28:05	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Besus is in progress, not ready for testing yet
00:28:13	spencer-tb:	New EEST full release v5: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/releases/tag/v5.0.0
00:28:16	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Besus is in progress..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:21	Barnabas:	Reacted to "New EEST full releas..." with ğŸ”¥
00:28:22	Åukasz Rozmej:	Feel free to ping me with updated BAL specs ,will be happy to review
00:28:25	danceratopz:	Reacted to "New EEST full releas..." with ğŸ”¥
00:28:33	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "New EEST full releas..." with ğŸ”¥
00:30:13	felipe:	Reacted to "Feel free to ping ..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:49	felipe:	Replying to "Feel free to ping ..."

Will do. We've been updating in the block-access-lists channel in Eth R&D as well.
00:31:14	felipe:	Reacted to "Feel free to ping ..." with â¤ï¸
00:31:17	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to Will do. We've been ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:32:20	felipe:	Thanks Barnabas!
00:32:28	Trent:	Thanks all!
00:32:30	Jen:	Thank you !
