WEBVTT

1
00:01:25.560 --> 00:01:26.650
Barnabas: Hello, hello?

2
00:01:27.190 --> 00:01:28.809
Barnabas: Can you guys hear me well?

3
00:01:29.490 --> 00:01:30.580
Pooja Ranjan: Yes, Barnabis.

4
00:01:32.840 --> 00:01:37.909
Pooja Ranjan: So I will start the pre-streaming in, like, couple of minutes, and whenever you are, just let me know.

5
00:01:38.250 --> 00:01:38.850
Barnabas: Okay.

6
00:01:39.150 --> 00:01:40.000
Barnabas: Thank you.

7
00:04:25.920 --> 00:04:27.050
Barnabas: Pardon me interpret it.

8
00:04:27.520 --> 00:04:30.160
Barnabas: Give it another minute, and then we can get started.

9
00:05:13.150 --> 00:05:17.040
Barnabas: I think we should be good to go. Pooja, can you please start the call?

10
00:05:19.560 --> 00:05:20.250
Barnabas: Thank you.

11
00:05:20.870 --> 00:05:27.670
Barnabas: Welcome, everybody, to all core devs, testing call number 52. Fahil, could you please mute?

12
00:05:34.250 --> 00:05:35.100
Barnabas: Thank you.

13
00:05:35.490 --> 00:05:42.360
Barnabas: We're going to go into, physical right away. Physical.net status updates,

14
00:05:42.870 --> 00:05:51.560
Barnabas: Definitely has a pretty high participation rate right now. We are sitting at about 80… 82%, which is not…

15
00:05:51.740 --> 00:05:53.809
Barnabas: Great, but not horrible.

16
00:05:54.090 --> 00:06:01.180
Barnabas: re… seem to have a few issues with a few specific clients, especially Nimbus and Aragon.

17
00:06:01.310 --> 00:06:08.570
Barnabas: And, we have a couple of issues with, decorath and Nimbus EL and grandine.

18
00:06:09.580 --> 00:06:15.349
Barnabas: Ideally, we want to see some fixes from Nimbus and Ergon before we…

19
00:06:15.460 --> 00:06:25.110
Barnabas: going to the next unfinity period, we want to launch that, later today, or latest, by tomorrow.

20
00:06:25.710 --> 00:06:34.699
Barnabas: So, first of all, we would like to get some information from these two clients, what are the issues, and if there's any fixes coming in.

21
00:06:40.030 --> 00:06:42.600
Barnabas: Is anyone from Nimbus on the call?

22
00:06:51.070 --> 00:06:53.520
Barnabas: Or is anyone from Eragon?

23
00:06:54.360 --> 00:07:00.649
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yes, I'm here, so… We don't have a…

24
00:07:00.650 --> 00:07:19.540
Andrew Ashikhmin: fix yet, and probably the issue will take some time to investigate. I think what's happening is that there is a flaw in Aragon's logic on long unwinds, and we sometimes deem a block invalid while it's

25
00:07:19.570 --> 00:07:36.139
Andrew Ashikhmin: still valid, but we need more time to investigate and debug the issue. Probably will first add some more logging, things like that, but it's a tricky issue to debug, so don't expect a fix today, unfortunately.

26
00:07:38.930 --> 00:07:39.630
Barnabas: Okay.

27
00:07:41.380 --> 00:07:49.449
Andrew Ashikhmin: On the upside, I've made a patch to fix the last remaining,

28
00:07:50.130 --> 00:07:56.320
Andrew Ashikhmin: Test failure on the Fusaka DevNet 5, Hive dashboard.

29
00:07:56.610 --> 00:07:58.619
Andrew Ashikhmin: There is at least that.

30
00:08:00.850 --> 00:08:07.789
Barnabas: Yeah, that's… that's great. We also want to make sure that Hive tests are 100% covered by every single EL.

31
00:08:13.660 --> 00:08:23.279
Barnabas: I guess, nobody from Nimbus is around to discuss their box. Anyone from TECU could comment on, the red box?

32
00:08:27.960 --> 00:08:29.630
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Oh, so harrowing it.

33
00:08:30.650 --> 00:08:34.189
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So, we are still, working on…

34
00:08:34.309 --> 00:08:46.660
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): One sinking issue, one of the errors that has been reported in the… in one of the issues that is part of that document summary.

35
00:08:47.330 --> 00:09:02.739
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So we lately, found a couple of things to improve and bug fixes around the way we were throttling requests from RPC that was causing a lot of issues with this.

36
00:09:03.480 --> 00:09:16.120
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): peer that was asking for 512 columns. We also fixed the validation of that, because by spec, that thing should have been rejected.

37
00:09:16.400 --> 00:09:35.479
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): We have already merged the PR for that. So, at the moment, the TECO boxes, even if they are… there are a couple of PR needs to go in to improve a situation, they're actually looking good, except for one that is…

38
00:09:35.730 --> 00:09:41.400
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Seems like he's having memory issues, and this is REF2.

39
00:09:41.650 --> 00:09:48.700
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): It was… It's been in sync for 4 days, and waiting for us to keep up.

40
00:09:48.840 --> 00:09:53.139
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Apparently, Ref never… Keep up, and

41
00:09:53.490 --> 00:10:04.549
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Suddenly, while waiting, we had some additional memory issues. It seems, like, unrelated to the previous memory issues that we had, so I'm investigating.

42
00:10:04.790 --> 00:10:09.329
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): At the moment, dumping and downloading and checking.

43
00:10:10.370 --> 00:10:12.359
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, that's it.

44
00:10:13.680 --> 00:10:16.380
Barnabas: Thank you. Anyone from REST?

45
00:10:16.740 --> 00:10:18.760
Barnabas: Could you give us an update?

46
00:10:21.530 --> 00:10:29.280
Roman: On the document itself, The document, mentions the…

47
00:10:29.680 --> 00:10:35.610
Roman: main net sinking bug, and we're gonna have the release for it, pretty soon.

48
00:10:35.800 --> 00:10:40.839
Roman: The only thing that I can say is that it is reorg-related.

49
00:10:41.560 --> 00:10:46.999
Roman: It never occurred on… on DevNets.

50
00:10:47.290 --> 00:10:54.060
Roman: So, hopefully, it should not be a blocker, but it would be better to include the new police version

51
00:10:54.530 --> 00:10:56.149
Roman: In DevNet 5.

52
00:10:56.700 --> 00:11:00.490
Roman: And, regarding the… rough.

53
00:11:00.590 --> 00:11:06.990
Roman: a cool client perp, Barnabas plugged it to me, I'm also gonna take a look today.

54
00:11:09.940 --> 00:11:16.089
Barnabas: Thanks. And, everything is already fixed in, the main branch, in the trunk branch of graph, right?

55
00:11:16.940 --> 00:11:17.320
Roman: Yeah.

56
00:11:17.320 --> 00:11:23.440
Barnabas: If they go, I have the DevNet5 with the trunk branch, then that should be all good. We don't need to wait for a release.

57
00:11:23.990 --> 00:11:24.630
Roman: Definitely.

58
00:11:27.180 --> 00:11:32.379
Barnabas: Alright, I think that's all the known bugs, at this point.

59
00:11:34.290 --> 00:11:38.519
Barnabas: What we need to discuss next is, possible timelines for .NET 5.

60
00:11:39.200 --> 00:11:50.660
Barnabas: We wanted to do another non-finity on .NET 3, and see how quickly we can recover from that first, and then we were gonna go into, .NET 5 planning.

61
00:11:50.980 --> 00:12:02.330
Barnabas: But I think, we're gonna need to start parallelizing these two, so ideally, I would like to get a thumbs up from every single client if they think that their trunk branch is ready for, DevNet 5.

62
00:12:03.730 --> 00:12:04.880
Barnabas: Gundine?

63
00:12:13.350 --> 00:12:15.159
Barnabas: Is anyone from Grandin? Grand?

64
00:12:15.160 --> 00:12:27.609
Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine: Yeah, yeah, so we think that we fixed all the things, all the issues we had with syncing, and everything is merged to develop a branch, so I think we are ready now.

65
00:12:27.850 --> 00:12:33.720
Saulius Grigaitis | Grandine: And, I think all the nodlings now in the DevNet 3 is sync them.

66
00:12:36.620 --> 00:12:38.710
Barnabas: Thank you. Prism?

67
00:12:40.900 --> 00:12:48.610
Manu: Yeah, so, the only… big missing feature right now in Develop is the backfill.

68
00:12:48.860 --> 00:13:01.929
Manu: A part of that, we are still continuing to merge some performance improvement into the develop branch, but yeah, we are ready for DevNet 5 in our develop branch.

69
00:13:05.760 --> 00:13:07.690
Barnabas: Thank you. Taeku?

70
00:13:13.970 --> 00:13:23.209
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): I think we're fine within the current state. We can have… so the bug that we were talking about before, I think it is not a blocker.

71
00:13:23.970 --> 00:13:25.669
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Running it.

72
00:13:28.370 --> 00:13:30.029
Barnabas: Thank you. Lighthouse?

73
00:13:31.230 --> 00:13:45.309
pawan: We should be good, too. We currently have, like, the custody backfill thing as a PR, and we'll be reviewing it this week, and hopefully merging it soon, but like you said, that shouldn't be a blocker.

74
00:13:45.450 --> 00:14:01.159
pawan: We also have another peer with a different sync strategy, and that is under review right now, but yeah, that one should also not be a blocker. We basically want to run our unstable branch and the other sync strategy

75
00:14:01.160 --> 00:14:12.679
pawan: branch at this, like, half of our… half of the lighthouse notes with each. When you do the non-finality event, we want to observe how, like, unstable

76
00:14:13.680 --> 00:14:15.250
pawan: Catch us back, and…

77
00:14:15.520 --> 00:14:25.720
pawan: up to head, and the other sync strategy also catches to head, so we don't want to merge that PR yet until we see how it works out.

78
00:14:26.340 --> 00:14:32.220
Barnabas: Yeah, that sounds good. We can organize, that… probably later this week.

79
00:14:34.590 --> 00:14:36.249
Barnabas: Thank you, Doctor.

80
00:14:37.460 --> 00:14:54.489
Matthew Keil: Oh, we identified a memory leak in some of the DB work that we did last week. We've got it figured out, we're in the process of testing it, hoping to get that merged tonight. Shouldn't stop us from getting onto the,

81
00:14:54.560 --> 00:15:05.770
Matthew Keil: DevNet, though, with our trunk branch. We do have a pretty substantial refactor, to clean up some technical debt, that we're also trying to get merged, tonight.

82
00:15:05.770 --> 00:15:16.270
Matthew Keil: So we can be ready for DevNet 5, but again, that also is not a blocker for… for DevNet 5. We can run locally, with some of our nodes if,

83
00:15:16.270 --> 00:15:20.350
Matthew Keil: you know, push comes to shove, but we'll try to get it, merged ASAP.

84
00:15:21.820 --> 00:15:22.670
Barnabas: Sounds good.

85
00:15:22.900 --> 00:15:25.929
Barnabas: Anyone from Nimbus, managed to join?

86
00:15:26.880 --> 00:15:33.809
Agnish Ghosh: Yeah. So… We have a blocking issue, that's happening…

87
00:15:34.050 --> 00:15:43.740
Agnish Ghosh: because of, the way GetBlobs works in our codebase, so… It's… it's sort of,

88
00:15:44.160 --> 00:15:47.149
Agnish Ghosh: A bug in the block validation pipeline?

89
00:15:47.290 --> 00:15:51.790
Agnish Ghosh: Happens only for super nodes for now.

90
00:15:52.040 --> 00:15:56.549
Agnish Ghosh: We are trying to resolve that issue by tonight. I have actually pushed

91
00:15:56.720 --> 00:16:02.990
Agnish Ghosh: some of the fixes, so… in a couple of hours, I think the Watchtower should be picking it up.

92
00:16:03.290 --> 00:16:08.749
Agnish Ghosh: Apart from that, we are yet to ship our final version for the sinker.

93
00:16:09.080 --> 00:16:13.000
Agnish Ghosh: However, I think we should be fine.

94
00:16:13.190 --> 00:16:19.040
Agnish Ghosh: If we are planning to do another non-finality test, in DevNet 3.

95
00:16:19.770 --> 00:16:24.280
Agnish Ghosh: about DevNet 5,

96
00:16:24.740 --> 00:16:37.790
Agnish Ghosh: we are ready, but I… I'm not super sure about the blob count. Where do we tip over? So yeah, like, unless and until that happens,

97
00:16:38.220 --> 00:16:42.349
Agnish Ghosh: We… it's kind of a blind spot for us.

98
00:16:42.740 --> 00:16:43.780
Agnish Ghosh: Right now.

99
00:16:45.240 --> 00:16:51.799
Barnabas: Is there any update regarding your trunk branch readiness? Is everything still in HR branch?

100
00:16:51.800 --> 00:16:58.629
Agnish Ghosh: Oh, right. So, for the trunk branch readiness, the update that I pushed

101
00:16:58.950 --> 00:17:11.819
Agnish Ghosh: couple of, minutes ago, it should be picked up by Watchtower, and soon after, we would be merging that into our trunk branch. Once that is done, our trunk branch must be ready, so let's say by tonight.

102
00:17:12.069 --> 00:17:16.419
Agnish Ghosh: Or maybe tomorrow early morning, the trunk branch should be ready.

103
00:17:18.020 --> 00:17:18.770
Barnabas: Sounds good.

104
00:17:19.359 --> 00:17:21.399
Barnabas: Anyone from Gaff around?

105
00:17:25.400 --> 00:17:28.829
lightclient: I… yeah, I think we're good for definite 5.

106
00:17:29.390 --> 00:17:37.119
lightclient: The main thing we're working on at this point is just handling blob conversion around the migration, but that's not really a blocking issue.

107
00:17:39.210 --> 00:17:40.730
Barnabas: Sounds good. Breath?

108
00:17:45.910 --> 00:17:47.610
Roman: Yeah.

109
00:17:47.810 --> 00:17:50.880
Roman: Wave received ready from the mainfront.

110
00:17:51.870 --> 00:17:53.239
Barnabas: Thank you. Never mind.

111
00:17:57.330 --> 00:17:58.830
Łukasz Rozmej: I think we should be fine.

112
00:18:00.040 --> 00:18:01.220
Barnabas: Thank you. Aragon.

113
00:18:02.620 --> 00:18:20.909
Andrew Ashikhmin: Well, as I mentioned in the beginning, we still have this bug that, we, like, probably mishandle along reorgs, but it'll take us some time to investigate it. Other than that, I think our main branch is ready.

114
00:18:22.000 --> 00:18:23.220
Barnabas: Thank you. Nazu?

115
00:18:24.530 --> 00:18:26.000
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yep, we're on Main.

116
00:18:27.090 --> 00:18:28.020
Justin Florentine (Besu): Thank you.

117
00:18:29.140 --> 00:18:33.829
Barnabas: Okay, so it sounds like, we should be good to go with the non-finals event,

118
00:18:34.860 --> 00:18:48.350
Barnabas: Maybe by end of today, and then we're gonna try to do it for at least one day, and try to recover, and then we can probably schedule Debnet 5 on the second half of this week. As soon as we have,

119
00:18:49.560 --> 00:18:52.109
Barnabas: The time set, then we're gonna announce it.

120
00:18:52.390 --> 00:18:59.320
Barnabas: it's gonna be a very big network in order to DevNet 4, and hopefully things will go smoothly there.

121
00:19:02.340 --> 00:19:13.349
Barnabas: Next topic will be shadow fork testing. So, parallel to doing .NET 5, we are planning to look into doing Shadow Forks for

122
00:19:13.780 --> 00:19:22.889
Barnabas: all the different testnets. Currently, we have two main blockers from gas and ergon, due to the fact that,

123
00:19:23.010 --> 00:19:31.519
Barnabas: then they don't have a way to override the blob schedule values. Therefore, scheduling a shadow fork is currently not possible.

124
00:19:31.930 --> 00:19:33.650
Barnabas: on Eragon and Geth.

125
00:19:34.410 --> 00:19:38.089
Barnabas: I know that, Matt is working on the graphics,

126
00:19:38.800 --> 00:19:43.010
Barnabas: Is there gonna be a fix for this in Ergon as well?

127
00:19:47.600 --> 00:19:52.640
Andrew Ashikhmin: Well, no one is working on it yet, but…

128
00:19:53.040 --> 00:19:57.420
Andrew Ashikhmin: Probably be a quick change. Okay, so when do you need it?

129
00:19:58.320 --> 00:20:01.499
Barnabas: Probably by the second half of this week, ideally.

130
00:20:02.230 --> 00:20:05.090
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, okay, yeah, we'll try to do it, yeah.

131
00:20:06.610 --> 00:20:07.520
Barnabas: Sounds good.

132
00:20:08.280 --> 00:20:17.480
Barnabas: And regarding, releases, do client teams feel like they would be ready to do,

133
00:20:18.410 --> 00:20:26.310
Barnabas: releases for Hosky, or technically, we don't need an actual release for Hosky, but it would be nice if

134
00:20:26.560 --> 00:20:33.060
Barnabas: We could have, like, a pre-release… Maybe by next week, Monday?

135
00:20:37.760 --> 00:20:40.610
Barnabas: Because, Hosky wasn't part of the…

136
00:20:40.710 --> 00:20:45.460
Barnabas: all testing schedule, that's why I'm pushing for such accelerated timeline.

137
00:20:52.870 --> 00:20:55.859
Barnabas: I don't think we have decided on timestamp yet.

138
00:20:56.660 --> 00:21:06.079
Barnabas: I think, we can discuss timestamps async, and maybe make a decision on the call on Thursday.

139
00:21:09.340 --> 00:21:25.719
Andrew Ashikhmin: For Aragon, it's problematic, because we are trying to wrap up our 3.1 release, and we'll need to cut another release, 3.2 for Holesky, because 3.1 doesn't have all the Fusaka changes, and it's basically,

140
00:21:25.890 --> 00:21:34.110
Andrew Ashikhmin: we… we're constrained on the testing side, and so on. So, yeah, a week from now is too soon.

141
00:21:35.400 --> 00:21:37.360
Barnabas: Okay, what would be the preferred date?

142
00:21:38.840 --> 00:21:42.130
Andrew Ashikhmin: In two weeks would be better.

143
00:21:48.130 --> 00:21:48.850
Barnabas: Correct.

144
00:21:52.940 --> 00:21:56.079
Barnabas: What about other, like, how do CL teams feel about it?

145
00:22:22.280 --> 00:22:29.590
Barnabas: Yeah, so we're gonna be trying to accelerate DevNet5 as soon as possible to be able to determine the BPO values.

146
00:22:29.690 --> 00:22:36.559
Barnabas: Hopefully by next week, then we're gonna have that, and then a week after that, we should…

147
00:22:36.960 --> 00:22:43.189
Barnabas: be able to make, current releases, that should fit also the schedule of Aragon.

148
00:22:43.540 --> 00:22:51.030
Barnabas: So I think if we can aim for, plant releases by the 22nd of September, then,

149
00:22:51.240 --> 00:22:57.640
Barnabas: We should have all the BPO values determined by them, and, should be all set.

150
00:23:07.690 --> 00:23:20.950
Barnabas: Again, and if we don't have, like, a full-blown release, I don't think that's gonna be such a big deal, because Holzky has a pre-known validator set, so we can accelerate the deployment and have custom deployments as well.

151
00:23:21.350 --> 00:23:26.210
Barnabas: We can just build a… tagged, locker image as well.

152
00:23:29.850 --> 00:23:35.009
Barnabas: Alright, so I think we discussed, demo 5, we discussed the non-finalty.

153
00:23:35.250 --> 00:23:43.489
Barnabas: timeline, maybe we can move on to gas limit testing. Anyone from Netherland could give us an update? How is that going?

154
00:24:01.340 --> 00:24:06.309
Łukasz Rozmej: I don't see Camille on the call. Martin, do you have anything to update?

155
00:24:08.800 --> 00:24:19.510
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, so we are running EST test, and right now, we have a tooling to run it,

156
00:24:19.510 --> 00:24:34.079
Marcin Sobczak: stateful, we did some experiments in Hudi, and, right now, I'm trying to, to run it on, on MyNet, and, one of my,

157
00:24:34.080 --> 00:24:50.600
Marcin Sobczak: next, next steps is to, run, Zen, test, prepared by, Johim, and, try it on, on, top of MyNetDB.

158
00:25:01.390 --> 00:25:02.399
Barnabas: Okay, thank you.

159
00:25:04.110 --> 00:25:13.829
Barnabas: Regarding, Glamstone testing updates, is anyone, Tony is around, maybe? Or, look, level access?

160
00:25:19.450 --> 00:25:20.930
Barnabas: Or anyone else?

161
00:25:21.170 --> 00:25:29.530
Barnabas: Could you give us an update, how's that going? How's the specs coming along, and if we could be ready to have the first,

162
00:25:30.730 --> 00:25:34.119
Barnabas: Well, 7.0 launch by the end of the month, maybe?

163
00:25:35.150 --> 00:25:50.530
Jared Wasinger: Yeah, so I can't really comment on that, but I can say that regarding testing, I know that the testing team, recently made an initial release of blockchain tests for block-level access lists, and…

164
00:25:50.840 --> 00:25:54.319
Jared Wasinger: In testing them against Geth, we found…

165
00:25:54.730 --> 00:26:02.380
Jared Wasinger: a few ish… well, I think two issues with the… EALS implementation of the spec.

166
00:26:03.100 --> 00:26:08.479
Jared Wasinger: So I guess those are being… Currently being addressed.

167
00:26:08.610 --> 00:26:16.219
Jared Wasinger: But, like, regarding, A timeline for DevNet.

168
00:26:16.700 --> 00:26:21.399
Jared Wasinger: I… from the… from the… from my…

169
00:26:21.650 --> 00:26:27.549
Jared Wasinger: from my point of view, writing this for Geth, I think we could be ready,

170
00:26:28.940 --> 00:26:33.080
Jared Wasinger: potent, very soon, but I don't know…

171
00:26:33.300 --> 00:26:35.459
Jared Wasinger: If other people are on the same page.

172
00:26:38.610 --> 00:26:43.650
Barnabas: Any other ELs have any updates regarding… Dr. Alexis List?

173
00:26:44.630 --> 00:26:58.769
Łukasz Rozmej: So, Nevermind has a prototype of block-level access list. I'm not sure what the testing status, Mark, Harvey Hill is handling it. I don't… also don't see him in this call, but I know, we have,

174
00:26:59.030 --> 00:27:03.050
Łukasz Rozmej: Something that he said it was working.

175
00:27:08.160 --> 00:27:11.999
felipe: Yeah, I… I can give an update from the testing side.

176
00:27:12.290 --> 00:27:19.040
felipe: Yeah, we did release a pre-release for block-level access lists, and as, Jared mentioned.

177
00:27:19.320 --> 00:27:21.889
felipe: The specs, need some updates.

178
00:27:22.380 --> 00:27:30.139
felipe: And, we are… we're getting a proper review on the spec side right now, and I… I assume once it's merged.

179
00:27:30.900 --> 00:27:36.109
felipe: We can figure out those issues, and then we'll get another release out this week as well.

180
00:27:41.900 --> 00:27:48.140
Barnabas: That sounds good. Have any other EL teams managed to take a look at… Implementation?

181
00:28:02.080 --> 00:28:06.560
spencer-tb: Hey, this is not, block-level access list related, but,

182
00:28:07.020 --> 00:28:13.510
spencer-tb: Just wanted to jump in from the east side, just to say that we've… Just released our…

183
00:28:13.920 --> 00:28:18.249
spencer-tb: V5 full release. It's been a long time coming for this one, and

184
00:28:18.540 --> 00:28:22.070
spencer-tb: I think I've already messaged all the EL teams specifically.

185
00:28:22.530 --> 00:28:27.070
spencer-tb: but it's worth taking a look at the release notes.

186
00:28:27.590 --> 00:28:38.279
spencer-tb: and… We essentially are announcing here that we're planning to merge execution spec tests with eels, execution specs.

187
00:28:40.850 --> 00:28:48.260
spencer-tb: What that means for test releases, so in the future, when we do finally merge the two repos, test releases will still…

188
00:28:48.390 --> 00:28:49.890
spencer-tb: come from East?

189
00:28:50.310 --> 00:28:54.939
spencer-tb: So that will still be the main place to get tests, but the actual Python tests…

190
00:28:55.060 --> 00:28:57.760
spencer-tb: And the East Framework will move to eels.

191
00:28:57.990 --> 00:29:03.139
spencer-tb: For now, if you're working on East, PR should still go there, but we'll,

192
00:29:03.880 --> 00:29:09.610
spencer-tb: communicate accordingly for when people need to start moving the PRs to ELS.

193
00:29:10.790 --> 00:29:18.259
spencer-tb: I guess I can also mention a bit about the test fixtures, so we have, 3 tarballs here, so we've got

194
00:29:18.460 --> 00:29:20.550
spencer-tb: The latest benchmark fixtures?

195
00:29:21.030 --> 00:29:29.710
spencer-tb: We also have fixtures stable and fixtures developed, so fixtures stable, contain all the tests, filled until Prague.

196
00:29:29.980 --> 00:29:34.350
spencer-tb: And Fixtures Develop contains all the tests, filled into Osaka.

197
00:29:34.620 --> 00:29:41.720
spencer-tb: And within these two tarballs now, we have refilled general state tests from Ethereum tests.

198
00:29:41.970 --> 00:29:47.829
spencer-tb: So… Yeah, I recommend running the fixtures Develop Powerball, because they have…

199
00:29:48.180 --> 00:29:56.690
spencer-tb: the general state tests refilled for Osaka, and obviously we had the… Transaction gas limit cap, so…

200
00:29:57.030 --> 00:30:03.840
spencer-tb: Just to make sure you guys are passing those tests, too, because we changed, we changed a lot of the tests,

201
00:30:03.940 --> 00:30:05.790
spencer-tb: Or the transaction gas limit cap.

202
00:30:06.280 --> 00:30:14.960
spencer-tb: A quick note on the actual general state tests, that they're only filled… From Cancun.

203
00:30:15.250 --> 00:30:18.569
spencer-tb: So, if you want to still run

204
00:30:18.740 --> 00:30:23.280
spencer-tb: the general state tests from Ethereum tests for forks before Cancun.

205
00:30:23.720 --> 00:30:30.300
spencer-tb: like Shanghai, backwards, you'll want to still get these from Ethereum tests. But if you're only concerned with

206
00:30:30.850 --> 00:30:36.560
spencer-tb: Prague and Osaka, for the general state test from Ethereum tests.

207
00:30:37.170 --> 00:30:43.419
spencer-tb: then, the… tarballs in this release should be perfect for you.

208
00:30:43.680 --> 00:30:48.399
spencer-tb: Yeah, more information's in the release notes, and if there are any questions, please…

209
00:30:48.940 --> 00:30:51.130
spencer-tb: Fire them to us. Yeah.

210
00:30:55.270 --> 00:30:56.289
Barnabas: Thank you, Spencer.

211
00:31:01.690 --> 00:31:08.369
Barnabas: So if nobody else has any updates regarding whatever access list, then maybe we can jump into EPBS.

212
00:31:08.600 --> 00:31:12.910
Barnabas: Anyone on the call? That's…

213
00:31:13.720 --> 00:31:15.750
Barnabas: the most up-to-date with the PBS?

214
00:31:16.710 --> 00:31:18.429
Barnabas: Any photos, or…

215
00:31:19.380 --> 00:31:20.230
Barnabas: Terrence?

216
00:31:35.990 --> 00:31:42.549
Barnabas: I guess the instant suspects are still under review, and I'm not sure how the…

217
00:31:42.650 --> 00:31:44.920
Barnabas: Testing of it is everywhere, but…

218
00:31:45.200 --> 00:31:49.059
Barnabas: Yeah, I think we can circle back to that next week, or week after that.

219
00:31:51.250 --> 00:31:57.580
Barnabas: That was the agenda for today. Anyone else has anything else that they would like to discuss?

220
00:32:13.850 --> 00:32:19.110
Barnabas: Sounds like everybody's happy, so maybe you can end the call a bit sooner.

221
00:32:22.370 --> 00:32:25.440
Barnabas: Thanks for coming, and see you all on Thursday.

222
00:32:26.610 --> 00:32:27.480
pawan: Okay.

223
00:32:28.630 --> 00:32:29.270
Agnish Ghosh: Right.

224
00:32:29.270 --> 00:32:30.010
Pooja Ranjan: Yeah.

225
00:32:30.340 --> 00:32:31.569
Antoine James: Thank you. Thanks. Bye-bye.

226
00:32:31.570 --> 00:32:32.820
Andrew Ashikhmin: Okay, bye-bye.

227
00:32:33.220 --> 00:32:33.920
Dmitrii Shmatko: Aye.

