00:13:55	felix (eest):	siuuuuuuuu
00:13:56	jochem-brouwer:	Heh Marius where is this ğŸ˜‚
00:14:05	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Heh Marius where is ..." with ğŸ‘€
00:14:07	Louis:	Where is it
00:14:11	Marius van der Wijden:	Lol fuck sry
00:14:12	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Heh Marius where is ..." with ğŸ‘€
00:14:13	nixo:	lol marius why are you at a stadium
00:14:16	jochem-brouwer:	Hahahaha
00:14:19	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Lol fuck sry" with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:22	lightclient:	marius just bought a football team?
00:14:23	nixo:	Reacted to "Lol fuck sry" with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:29	jochem-brouwer:	He bought a stadium I think
00:14:32	nixo:	Reacted to "marius just bought a..." with ğŸš€
00:14:33	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "marius just bought a..." with ğŸš€
00:14:33	Marius van der Wijden:	Borussia Dortmund
00:14:35	felix (eest):	Reacted to "marius just bought..." with ğŸš€
00:14:36	Minhyuk Kim:	Reacted to "marius just bought a..." with ğŸš€
00:14:37	lightclient:	landlord things
00:14:37	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Lol fuck sry" with ğŸ˜‚
00:14:43	kasey:	Important to invest in uncorrelated assets
00:14:47	lightclient:	Reacted to "Important to invest ..." with ğŸ˜†
00:14:49	nixo:	Reacted to "Important to invest ..." with ğŸ˜†
00:14:50	wolovim:	Replying to "Lol fuck sry"

coulda played that off real cool
00:14:51	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "Important to invest ..." with ğŸ˜†
00:14:52	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Important to invest ..." with ğŸ˜†
00:14:53	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Important to invest ..." with ğŸ˜†
00:14:57	Marius van der Wijden:	They rented the stadium for a weird crypto conference
00:15:09	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Important to invest ... with "ğŸ˜†"
00:15:11	nixo:	Replying to "They rented the stad..."

likely story
00:15:54	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1700
00:16:34	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-syncing-bugs
00:17:07	kingy_sigp:	lighthouse bugs should be fixed now in unstable
00:17:18	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..." 

 Nethermind: no reported issues
Geth: no reported issues
00:17:21	Manu:	Prysm bug fixed
00:17:23	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..." 

 Kings ğŸ¤´
00:17:33	saulius:	Grandine bug fixed too
00:17:34	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Teku is still working on some bugs on RPC side
00:17:39	Barnabas:	soz for joining late
00:18:14	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-syncing-bugs
00:20:26	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/master/processes/protocol-upgrade.md
00:20:51	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:30	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:31	nixo:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:46	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:59	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:22:02	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/pull/1715
00:23:54	kingy_sigp:	lighthouse generally in favour of the changes
00:24:01	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:24:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_09_04_160711.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:25:00	Phil Ngo:	Will look at this, but would be great to get approval from non-core devs on this PR too and spread the world
00:25:34	lightclient:	+++
00:25:40	James He:	Have not looked as a team, sharing internally
00:25:43	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Will look at this, b..." with â•
00:26:27	stokes:	Reacted to "Have not looked as a..." with ğŸ‘
00:27:17	Alexey:	shadowfork tesnet once?
00:27:31	Barnabas:	We will be having shadowforks on all testnets going forward
00:27:37	Barnabas:	Its an easy win
00:27:40	Marius van der Wijden:	Wdyt about long running shadowforks of the testnets that we can fork
00:27:49	Marius van der Wijden:	Lol
00:27:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i think sfs should run till they fail
00:28:26	Justin Florentine (Besu):	maybe 'decay' is a better term than 'fail'
00:28:37	Alexey:	Reacted to "We will be having sh..." with ğŸ”¥
00:28:39	Vub:	I think it's good for testnets that have apps on them to occasionally break. Apps too need the practice in handling exceptional situations :P
00:29:05	lightclient:	Reacted to "I think it's good fo..." with ğŸ˜„
00:29:08	nixo:	woah
00:29:14	nixo:	Replying to "woah"

record setting?
00:29:17	Alexey:	No release schedule?
00:29:27	Marius van der Wijden:	Short call maxi
00:29:28	Josh Davis:	Replying to "woah"

Think soâ€¦
00:29:29	Alexey:	testnet ready releases
00:29:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	devnet5 is still tbd
00:29:41	Marius van der Wijden:	So no releases on monday?
00:29:52	Hsiao-Wei Wang:	Reacted to "Short call maxi" with ğŸ”¥
00:30:36	Barnabas:	Can we aim trunk branches merged by monday?
00:30:49	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "Can we aim trunk bra..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:53	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Can we aim trunk bra..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:27	saulius:	Reacted to "Can we aim trunk bra..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:37	Alexey:	Reacted to "Can we aim trunk bra..." with âœ…
00:31:44	Mario Vega:	Please check https://hive.ethpandaops.io/#/group/fusaka-devnet-5 for any outstanding issues, testing team is currently going over these but clients checking them too would be nice
00:31:49	Manu:	Prysm: We can use trunk branch
00:32:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "Prysm: We can use tr..."

can i roll on devnet 3?
00:32:03	James He:	Reacted to "Can we aim trunk bra..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:23	Manu:	Replying to "Prysm: We can use tr..."

Depending if you want to use evil options like  â€”withhold-data-columns
00:32:29	Francesco:	Reacted to "We will be having sh..." with ğŸ”¥
00:32:32	Manu:	Replying to "Prysm: We can use tr..."

These kind of options wonâ€™t be merged in develop
00:32:45	James He:	Reacted to "can i roll on devnet..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:49	Manu:	Replying to "Prysm: We can use tr..."

(These options are the only diff regarding BN between  peerDAS  and  develop )
