WEBVTT

1
00:13:55.330 --> 00:13:56.350
stokes: Hello, everyone.

2
00:14:02.970 --> 00:14:06.790
stokes: Let's give it another minute or two, and we'll get started.

3
00:15:30.280 --> 00:15:38.040
stokes: Okay, let's see, Josh, or perhaps Pooja? Someone's helping with the stream today.

4
00:15:38.280 --> 00:15:39.020
stokes: Cool.

5
00:15:39.490 --> 00:15:40.559
Josh Davis: Yep, are you ready?

6
00:15:41.060 --> 00:15:41.790
stokes: Yep.

7
00:15:45.000 --> 00:15:46.140
Josh Davis: Alright, your life.

8
00:15:46.500 --> 00:15:47.590
stokes: Okay, thanks.

9
00:15:48.040 --> 00:15:57.949
stokes: Hi everyone, welcome to ACDC164. I'll put the agenda here in the chat. It's issue 1700 on the PM repo.

10
00:15:58.790 --> 00:16:09.769
stokes: And, yeah, so the agenda's pretty light today, because we're all quite busy with Fusaka and making progress there on the road to mainnet. So, yeah, let's get into it.

11
00:16:10.420 --> 00:16:20.200
stokes: First up, really, let's check in with, DevNet 3. There's been a number of issues, that people have been dealing with.

12
00:16:20.380 --> 00:16:23.980
stokes: So, yeah, I don't know if there's anything to discuss there.

13
00:16:24.200 --> 00:16:30.550
stokes: I know there's been rounds of finality on the test, or DevNet, and then rounds of non-finality.

14
00:16:30.880 --> 00:16:40.049
stokes: Barnabas put together this doc here with a bunch of open issues, so yeah, anything anyone wants to touch on?

15
00:16:43.780 --> 00:16:46.980
stokes: I'm not sure if Barnabas or maybe Perry are here.

16
00:16:47.160 --> 00:16:48.790
stokes: They could speak to that a bit more.

17
00:16:55.760 --> 00:16:57.409
stokes: Okay, I might be out today.

18
00:16:57.710 --> 00:17:04.239
stokes: But yeah, essentially just, like, a number of different bugs, across a mix of clients.

19
00:17:04.800 --> 00:17:09.179
stokes: So, yeah, I don't know if there's anything else worth touching on it right now.

20
00:17:09.520 --> 00:17:13.940
stokes: Okay, Guinea says, Lighthouse bugs should be fixed now and unstable. That's good to know.

21
00:17:21.720 --> 00:17:23.930
stokes: Okay, prison bug fixed, cool.

22
00:17:26.910 --> 00:17:29.620
stokes: Yeah, no issues for another Mindarketh here.

23
00:17:31.270 --> 00:17:37.470
stokes: So, yeah, I mean, again, I think people are generally busy with these bugs, and or fixing them.

24
00:17:37.830 --> 00:17:41.550
stokes: And the plan would be to roll out updates to DevNet 3 as soon as we're there.

25
00:17:42.220 --> 00:17:48.380
stokes: Oh, no worries, Barnabas is here. Yeah, Barnabas, we're talking about DevNet 3 and any syncing issues.

26
00:17:48.700 --> 00:17:53.539
stokes: Along with any other general issues, I don't know if you have another update beyond that you'd like to give?

27
00:17:54.770 --> 00:17:59.320
Barnabas: So I… I combined a list of documents for,

28
00:18:00.030 --> 00:18:06.769
Barnabas: I collected all the feedback from the different client teams, and I posted it in the PM repo.

29
00:18:07.590 --> 00:18:09.489
Barnabas: We got the zoom for it.

30
00:18:09.490 --> 00:18:14.590
stokes: Oh yeah, I put it in the chat area. Maybe I'll repaste it. You might not be able to see it.

31
00:18:15.090 --> 00:18:23.989
stokes: So, yeah, I don't know if there's anything… there's a number of things in here, but yeah, some of the clients are saying in the chat that some of the bugs are fixed,

32
00:18:24.750 --> 00:18:32.169
stokes: Teku says they're still working on some RPC things, but… yeah, looks like… Everyone's making progress.

33
00:18:33.740 --> 00:18:43.889
Barnabas: Yeah, so we want to confirm that, everybody has their trunk branches, updated with all the fixes, and, once that's done, then we're gonna…

34
00:18:44.280 --> 00:18:59.449
Barnabas: try to, get DevNet3 up to very close to 100% participation, and then mimic another non-fanuity event for a day or two, and then we're gonna try to recover again and see if all the fixes have actually worked.

35
00:19:02.410 --> 00:19:08.410
Barnabas: After that, we can, think about launching DevNet5 with 1,500 nodes.

36
00:19:11.310 --> 00:19:11.980
stokes: Mirror?

37
00:19:12.220 --> 00:19:13.210
stokes: Sounds good.

38
00:19:14.160 --> 00:19:23.439
stokes: So, yeah, I think that's pretty much where we're at, unless anyone has anything else to add, that's kind of just the status with soccer right now.

39
00:19:24.340 --> 00:19:38.019
stokes: Squashing bugs, getting ready to move on to the next step. DevNet 5 will be one of these larger DevNets, like DevNet4, and from there, we'll have some data to know how to proceed to testnets, and then ultimately mainnet, but…

40
00:19:38.390 --> 00:19:43.950
stokes: We're not quite there yet. Yeah, with all the open issues we have.

41
00:19:45.090 --> 00:19:53.260
stokes: So, that does tee us up into, DevNet5, and again, I'm not sure there's much to touch on, just given where we're at.

42
00:19:53.810 --> 00:19:57.190
stokes: But yeah, any questions or comments right now?

43
00:20:07.790 --> 00:20:08.710
stokes: Okay.

44
00:20:09.650 --> 00:20:17.910
stokes: Then, there's really just one other thing we wanted to touch on today, so… last ACDE, last week.

45
00:20:18.250 --> 00:20:25.239
stokes: We touched on the protocol upgrade process doc. I'll grab a link here in case you want it.

46
00:20:25.620 --> 00:20:34.820
stokes: And this document kind of came in response to Hectra, where we had a number of issues across some testnets that were pretty gnarly to fix.

47
00:20:35.300 --> 00:20:44.319
stokes: This process document lays out kind of a timeline that both, you know, ourselves as core developers, but also the community can use to coordinate around these upgrades.

48
00:20:44.630 --> 00:20:49.539
stokes: And one thing that came up was talking about timelines for testnets.

49
00:20:49.650 --> 00:20:56.779
stokes: Just simply because, yeah, especially with Fusaka, in the event that we want to try to move as quickly as we can.

50
00:20:56.960 --> 00:21:06.870
stokes: Getting Haleschi, Sepulia, and Hoodie all together, following the process doc implies one set of timelines. And the question came up, you know, can we…

51
00:21:07.030 --> 00:21:12.620
stokes: Essentially move faster, and more generally, like, how… what is… what is safe?

52
00:21:12.910 --> 00:21:15.840
stokes: What's the right trade-off between speed and safety here?

53
00:21:16.080 --> 00:21:27.870
stokes: And in response to that, so Tim couldn't make it today, but he went back and looked at, the calls where we discussed this previously. We had said that…

54
00:21:28.480 --> 00:21:33.320
stokes: Essentially, we had a given scheduling for timelines in the dock, and…

55
00:21:33.480 --> 00:21:40.220
stokes: That was the most contentious point, back when we first discussed this, so if anything, now is the time to revisit this.

56
00:21:40.760 --> 00:21:43.750
stokes: In response to that, Tim made a PR.

57
00:21:44.250 --> 00:21:54.419
stokes: to this document that suggests some changes. He also reached out to a number of different, L2s, LSTs, other infrastructure providers.

58
00:21:54.590 --> 00:21:58.330
stokes: And generally, people are okay with, these changes.

59
00:21:58.640 --> 00:22:01.949
stokes: And… let me just grab a link to the changes here.

60
00:22:02.330 --> 00:22:04.470
stokes: So, let me summarize them.

61
00:22:04.660 --> 00:22:13.020
stokes: Essentially, don't couple testnet and mainnet forks and client releases, which we kind of already had that, but just making it clear.

62
00:22:13.430 --> 00:22:16.919
stokes: It's okay to have multiple test networks in one release.

63
00:22:17.410 --> 00:22:26.879
stokes: Then, I think the first concrete change here is saying a minimum of 14 days rather than 30 days between client releases and the first testnet.

64
00:22:27.600 --> 00:22:35.579
stokes: Then, his proposal here in the PR is minimum 10 days between each testnet, but closer to 2 weeks is, you know, ideal.

65
00:22:35.830 --> 00:22:41.320
stokes: Then we keep this invariant of having 30 days between client releases and mainnet.

66
00:22:41.730 --> 00:22:51.430
stokes: So… He wanted to discuss this today, and there's some… actually quite a little bit of feedback,

67
00:22:51.730 --> 00:22:52.900
stokes: on the PR,

68
00:22:53.290 --> 00:23:01.470
stokes: And there's also some comments here on the agenda itself, so I don't know if people want to, respond to any of this.

69
00:23:02.010 --> 00:23:10.009
stokes: Otherwise, I think the ask would be to go ahead and either approve the PR, or yeah, surface any, any feedback there.

70
00:23:10.600 --> 00:23:22.259
stokes: Generally, I think this is a nice refinement. It gives us, you know, a little flexibility around how we want to think about pipelining Tesla upgrades, just, again, so that we can not have all these

71
00:23:22.630 --> 00:23:25.939
stokes: Big chunks of time between these different stages.

72
00:23:26.390 --> 00:23:32.019
stokes: But yeah, even just looking across this, there's a lot of different opinions on this, so…

73
00:23:32.800 --> 00:23:35.640
stokes: I will open the floor now for comments on that.

74
00:23:36.000 --> 00:23:39.780
stokes: Or any questions if it wasn't clear what I was talking about.

75
00:23:46.790 --> 00:23:48.730
stokes: Have people had time to look at this?

76
00:23:53.320 --> 00:24:00.569
stokes: Otherwise, it's not clear if silence is… I'm okay with it, or… I just have no opinion, because I haven't looked at it.

77
00:24:08.520 --> 00:24:12.300
Justin Florentine (Besu): Basie team has not had, enough time to look at this.

78
00:24:13.390 --> 00:24:14.050
stokes: Okay.

79
00:24:15.900 --> 00:24:21.160
stokes: We do have a comment in the chat here from Lighthouse, generally in favor of the changes.

80
00:24:22.940 --> 00:24:25.559
stokes: I guess one thing to note here is…

81
00:24:26.580 --> 00:24:30.259
stokes: We, you know, obviously this is in the context of Fusaka timelines.

82
00:24:30.970 --> 00:24:46.549
stokes: And if we kind of follow the letter of the document, I would put a lot of time, given that we essentially have 3 testnets to go through with Haleshky this go-around. That being said, Heleshky is being deprecated, so it seems fine to have a bit more of a compressed timeline there.

83
00:24:46.790 --> 00:24:48.070
stokes: Where…

84
00:24:48.190 --> 00:24:55.959
stokes: you know, if we kind of consider Sepolia to be our first, quote, real testnet, that would still follow this, like, 30 days, buffer.

85
00:24:56.630 --> 00:24:58.609
stokes: That was in the original document.

86
00:24:59.230 --> 00:25:04.369
stokes: And then separately, this PR does kind of set us up to move faster in general.

87
00:25:05.020 --> 00:25:06.550
stokes: Around testnet timing.

88
00:25:19.290 --> 00:25:33.000
stokes: Okay, Phil from Lodestar says they'll take a look. It'd be good to get approval from non-core devs on the PR2, yeah. So, I know Tim did reach out to a number of different community members, and generally they're all on board. I think…

89
00:25:33.460 --> 00:25:41.820
stokes: Probably the most… Chris's feedback was, from Lido here on the PR. Let me find it.

90
00:25:42.390 --> 00:25:47.819
stokes: They're kind of arguing for, yeah,

91
00:25:48.550 --> 00:25:53.019
stokes: a bit more time, I think. Especially around the first SNF fork.

92
00:25:57.590 --> 00:26:03.890
stokes: So… Yeah, given that people haven't really had time to digest this that much.

93
00:26:04.710 --> 00:26:07.999
stokes: Yeah, Prism just said this as well. Oh yeah, Justin?

94
00:26:08.580 --> 00:26:27.949
Justin Florentine (Besu): So, one of the things that was a bit of an issue back in the Pector days, and that my understanding is this process was to address, was kind of the mixed-use nature of the testnets, where we want them to be testnets that we break, or may break, obviously we don't want to, but they are breakable.

95
00:26:28.010 --> 00:26:35.929
Justin Florentine (Besu): And… L2s, app developers, staking providers, etc. are kind of using those as staging environments.

96
00:26:36.360 --> 00:26:38.130
Justin Florentine (Besu): Before they go to production.

97
00:26:38.450 --> 00:26:56.509
Justin Florentine (Besu): I don't really see anything in the ongoing discourse or the proposed changes to any of these processes that kind of addresses that. So, from my perspective, this is still kind of an outstanding issue that we haven't really addressed yet, and I'd like to see a little bit more of a concrete perspective on that.

98
00:26:56.920 --> 00:27:11.730
Justin Florentine (Besu): So if we have one, I'd love to hear that shared, or to hear feedback from L2s, app devs, staking providers, etc. And if we don't have that yet, I'd like to see that more before we modify the existing process. Thanks.

99
00:27:13.000 --> 00:27:13.870
stokes: Okay.

100
00:27:14.010 --> 00:27:26.660
stokes: Yeah, I know Tim reached out kind of directly to different people, but yeah, he did encourage them to chime in publicly, but yeah, definitely something we can make more…

101
00:27:27.400 --> 00:27:34.879
stokes: more transparent. So yeah, I can reach out to different people and see what I can do there.

102
00:27:50.000 --> 00:27:55.280
stokes: Okay, Barnabas says something here about Shadow Forks. So yeah, we'll have them on all test nets going forward.

103
00:27:55.600 --> 00:27:59.649
stokes: Which is just an additional, place to catch any issues.

104
00:28:05.980 --> 00:28:10.270
stokes: Okay, I mean, it kind of sounds like there's not much more to add here.

105
00:28:10.650 --> 00:28:21.759
stokes: So, in that case, yeah, please take a closer look, both as client teams and anyone listening, take your feedback to the PR, I think is probably the best place for it right now.

106
00:28:23.260 --> 00:28:34.200
stokes: And yeah, I'll do what I can on my end to, get clear, sort of, public statements from these different community players, and yeah, we'll move forward there.

107
00:28:38.670 --> 00:28:44.869
stokes: So, that was really all we had on the agenda. I wanted to keep it pretty light today, because again, everyone's just…

108
00:28:45.090 --> 00:28:50.130
stokes: Focused on Fusaka. Yeah, any other…

109
00:28:50.490 --> 00:28:54.769
stokes: things for discussion. Otherwise, this will be a very short call today.

110
00:29:13.250 --> 00:29:17.959
stokes: Okay, then good luck, with Fusaka.

111
00:29:19.070 --> 00:29:28.360
stokes: Okay, Alexi, here's asking… I think you mean about the Fisaka timelines, and yeah, I think, given where we're at, it's a little premature to, like, talk about them concretely.

112
00:29:28.810 --> 00:29:36.119
stokes: You know, the next steps here would be getting DevNet3 together, like Barnabas was saying.

113
00:29:36.390 --> 00:29:42.700
stokes: If we think everyone has fixed all the bugs, then we do one more finality, non-finality test there.

114
00:29:43.010 --> 00:29:46.600
stokes: If that looks good, then we can move back to MNET5, like we had discussed.

115
00:29:46.920 --> 00:29:51.149
stokes: And from there, you know, we can kind of stick to the rest of the schedule.

116
00:29:51.440 --> 00:29:56.539
stokes: But, yeah, it's, I'm not sure, until we…

117
00:29:56.680 --> 00:30:00.279
stokes: Get through those first couple milestones, how we're going to…

118
00:30:00.480 --> 00:30:03.179
stokes: Discuss timelines and have them really make too much sense.

119
00:30:04.200 --> 00:30:13.909
stokes: I did post something on Discord on the AllCoreDevs channel, on the Ether R&D server, that's probably my latest view of what makes sense.

120
00:30:14.490 --> 00:30:18.389
stokes: But, yeah, otherwise, again, until we have DevNet3,

121
00:30:18.510 --> 00:30:21.920
stokes: Sorted out, and 5 running, it's a little premature.

122
00:30:24.090 --> 00:30:26.849
stokes: Marius is asking releases on Monday.

123
00:30:27.010 --> 00:30:33.180
stokes: If you feel like you're ready to make a release, you could, but again, I don't think, we'll have even…

124
00:30:34.700 --> 00:30:38.089
stokes: Yeah, I don't think we'll even have more than a few clients who'll be ready.

125
00:30:40.930 --> 00:30:49.050
stokes: Okay, Barnabas is asking trunk branches merged by Monday. Yeah, that seems like the next milestone for everyone, and I feel like that was kind of…

126
00:30:49.450 --> 00:30:51.369
stokes: The current item for everyone, but…

127
00:30:51.970 --> 00:30:56.069
stokes: If we need to make that clear. Is there more to say there, one of us?

128
00:30:59.080 --> 00:31:04.350
Barnabas: Not from my side. I'm just hoping that we can get everyone to fixing all their…

129
00:31:04.800 --> 00:31:06.949
Barnabas: known box by Monday.

130
00:31:08.040 --> 00:31:08.699
stokes: Bye, man.

131
00:31:09.220 --> 00:31:11.390
stokes: I mean, are there clients who don't have

132
00:31:11.580 --> 00:31:18.439
stokes: most of a chunk branch ready. I thought it was more that we kinda had good progress there, and it was more now just fixing bugs.

133
00:31:20.390 --> 00:31:21.439
stokes: Back them up.

134
00:31:30.050 --> 00:31:36.379
Barnabas: I think some clients are still, working on merging all the peer desk features into their trunk branches.

135
00:31:37.230 --> 00:31:37.870
stokes: Okay.

136
00:31:41.640 --> 00:31:49.440
stokes: So yeah, in that case, getting everything into Trunk Branch by Monday would be great. And yeah, otherwise…

137
00:31:49.800 --> 00:31:51.230
stokes: Squashing bugs.

138
00:31:54.070 --> 00:31:59.610
stokes: Mario has an asked to check Hive here, if there are any outstanding issues. Yeah, Mario, I'd like to say something?

139
00:31:59.900 --> 00:32:11.050
Mario Vega: Yeah, yeah, just basically that. Please check the link. We're going over the failures, but if you guys can check them too, please, yeah, please do so. It will be very nice, yeah.

140
00:32:19.720 --> 00:32:25.010
stokes: Okay, I think it should be clear what the next steps are for everyone, and…

141
00:32:25.840 --> 00:32:31.479
stokes: Otherwise, I would propose we close the call, so people can do that, and we can keep the Saka moving.

142
00:32:32.530 --> 00:32:39.809
stokes: I guess just to touch on Glamsterdam, just as a sort of reminder, we had said that we would have,

143
00:32:40.580 --> 00:32:46.760
stokes: the next step there for EIPs for Amsterdam would be with your stock and maintenance releases.

144
00:32:47.140 --> 00:32:55.029
stokes: Again, it's hard to say exactly what calendar date that is, given the progress of the FSACA, but just as an FYI.

145
00:32:55.490 --> 00:32:58.440
stokes: Keep that moving in parallel.

146
00:33:01.720 --> 00:33:02.620
stokes: Okay

147
00:33:04.450 --> 00:33:09.520
stokes: Sounds like we've gotten what we're going to get out of this call, so let's go ahead and wrap up.

148
00:33:10.070 --> 00:33:12.650
stokes: Oh, one last hand. Yeah, Marcin?

149
00:33:12.960 --> 00:33:22.169
Marcin Sobczak: Hi, I would like just to highlight that, when, testing, EIP with Modex gas.

150
00:33:22.400 --> 00:33:23.990
Marcin Sobczak: cost increase.

151
00:33:24.000 --> 00:33:41.219
Marcin Sobczak: We found that one transaction is failing, like, one contract seems to be broken. We already know that it's from Align Liar, and it's being discussed right now on Gustnie's testing channel on Telegram.

152
00:33:41.220 --> 00:33:51.969
Marcin Sobczak: So, I'm just highlighting that there is potential, issue where, the CIP will break the contract, but, yes, it's being… it's being discussed right now on other,

153
00:33:52.200 --> 00:33:53.740
Marcin Sobczak: On Telegram.

154
00:33:55.320 --> 00:34:00.029
stokes: Okay, and these were changes with Fusaka, right? The modXP changes made in Fusaka?

155
00:34:01.090 --> 00:34:02.940
Marcin Sobczak: Yes, yes, it's about 2 sucker.

156
00:34:03.410 --> 00:34:04.020
stokes: Okay.

157
00:34:05.580 --> 00:34:12.540
stokes: Yeah, anything anyone here needs to know there, beyond… Check out this Telegram channel.

158
00:34:14.860 --> 00:34:16.000
stokes: If it's relevant.

159
00:34:26.710 --> 00:34:27.389
stokes: Okay.

160
00:34:28.750 --> 00:34:30.900
stokes: Then, yeah, let's go ahead and wrap up.

161
00:34:31.090 --> 00:34:34.519
stokes: I'll see you all next time, and good luck with Osaka.

162
00:34:42.780 --> 00:34:43.940
lightclient: Bye.

163
00:34:46.800 --> 00:34:47.639
Mario Vega: Goodbye.

164
00:34:52.259 --> 00:34:53.109
Marius van der Wijden: Oh, yep.

