00:03:15	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	gn gn
00:08:00	Justin Traglia:	There was also a little Prysm bug, which Lin made a spec test for (thanks!)
https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4413
00:08:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "There was also a lit..." with ğŸ”¥
00:08:41	nflaig:	Reacted to "There was also a lit..." with ğŸ”¥
00:09:20	Barnabas:	too much cleanup :D
00:09:38	Barnabas:	Watchtower for the win :D
00:09:57	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "too much cleanup :D" with â¤ï¸
00:10:16	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Watchtower for the w..." with ğŸ’¯
00:10:59	Barnabas:	I donâ€™t recall any changes
00:11:52	Barnabas:	Reacted to "There was also a lit..." with ğŸ”¥
00:12:13	Barnabas:	Replying to "There was also a lit..."

Right that was one of the first bugs triggered right after FULU with deposits. This was already on friday, totally forgot about that.
00:17:06	pk910:	I think spamoor had a problem with that unfinality.
I'm working on it..
00:17:18	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I think spamoor had ..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:24	Bharath:	Reacted to "I think spamoor had ..." with ğŸ‘
00:17:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think spamoor had ..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:34	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I think spamoor ha..." met ğŸ‘
00:18:34	Barnabas:	no pressure ğŸ˜‚ - we are all looking at you
00:19:13	kasey:	The prysm bug was that we had stale validator indices in our proposer lookahead code. Previous spec test and kurtosis setups did not change active validator set.
00:19:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "The prysm bug was th..." with ğŸ”¥
00:20:08	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "There was also a lit..."

Regarding standard tests for other forks, Iâ€™ve made this issue. This wonâ€™t be done in time for the next release (initiating this process in a couple hours). But weâ€™ll be sure to get these tests into the next (beta.0) release.
00:20:17	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "The prysm bug was th..." with ğŸ‘
00:20:45	Bharath:	Reacted to "no pressure ğŸ˜‚ - we ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:21:17	Barnabas:	any update on backfill?
00:21:56	pawan:	Nice!
00:22:18	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "The prysm bug was th..." with ğŸ”¥
00:22:18	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "The prysm bug was th..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:38	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_06_30_161854.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:22:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_06_30_161854.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:22:43	pawan:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_06_30_161854.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:23:04	nixo:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_06_30_161854.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:23:23	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_06_..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:23:32	nflaig:	Reacted to "Barnabas has sent yo..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:23:44	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Screenshot2025_06_30_161854.jpg" with ğŸ˜‚
00:24:48	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "I think spamoor had ..."

FYI, last week I could run spamoor tests shared by Jochem on a besu performance devnet. So I could run the factorydeploytx scenario to deploy the ~ 12k contracts and then calltx scenario. I built spamoor from sources so the issue could be not related to the sources as I could make it run correctly.
00:25:21	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "I think spamoor had ..."

https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1386773806407749743/1388068741597757492
00:25:23	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I agree with Mariusâ€™ assessment, out-of-protocol index seems very dangerous
00:25:27	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I agree with Marius..." met ğŸ‘
00:25:36	J Sunnyside Labs:	A quick update from Sunnyside Labs: Weâ€™ve started testing with devnet-2 spec. We will share general details in a Discord thread  and communicate with each team individually.
00:25:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I agree with Mariusâ€™..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:56	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "A quick update from ..."

Do you guys want to give a brief update after the devnet-3 topic?
00:26:04	Felix:	we should not do it now
00:26:10	J Sunnyside Labs:	Replying to "A quick update from ..."

Sure ğŸ™‚
00:26:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	doing it now seems insane timeline-wise
00:28:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	well youâ€™ll have to merkelize it for zk / stateless
00:30:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	the fact that we are 3 days from wanting to freeze the spec and we still have these conceptual questions really makes me believe that pulling 7907 completely is the only responsible choice
00:30:25	Mario Vega:	Small comment worth looking in the EIP: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9910#issuecomment-2997357062
00:32:58	Roman:	reth agrees
00:35:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "reth agrees"

with pulling 7907? or something else?
00:35:58	Parithosh Jayanthi:	A question about EIP-7934. Are blocks supposed to be RLP-serialized as `[header, transactions, ommers, withdrawals]`
00:37:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/671
00:39:33	Marius:	I think we should do this
00:39:58	kasey:	The context here is execution engine api correct?
00:40:14	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "The context here is ..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:19	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "The context here is ..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:30	Marius:	The drawback is just a bit of processing time on the engine api, the advantage is that we can ship this before glamsterdam
00:40:30	FLCL:	is this pubsub change documented somewhere?
00:40:39	Marius:	Reacted to The context here is ... with "ğŸ‘"
00:41:11	marco:	In draft: https://github.com/libp2p/specs/pull/685
00:42:16	kasey:	I had the same thought as Pawan - we have exchange capabilities which would enable us to add new execution engine apis between forks, but having this at fusaka would streamline things quite a bit and make the optimization CL only.
00:42:47	FLCL:	If CLs agree to bring this optimisation, let's just switch to partial
00:43:28	Francesco:	If we decide to go ahead with this, can we soften the language in a way that allows returning [null, â€¦, null] even if you have some of the blobs? (e.g. rather than [A, null, B]). Basically just leaving it up to the EL whether to return partial responses or not
00:43:34	kasey:	I am in support of Marcoâ€™s proposal actually
00:43:56	kasey:	(But most of prysm hasnâ€™t reviewed it yet so I donâ€™t want to speak for team)
00:45:28	pawan:	Yeah to be clear, I like the optimization as well. Just donâ€™t want to spend more cycles on changing the spec, testing etc
00:48:50	Barnabas:	Iâ€™d do it on devnet 3
00:48:54	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d do it on devnet ..." with â•
00:48:56	pawan:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d do it on devnet ..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d do it on devnet ..." with â•
00:49:04	Bharath:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d do it on devnet ..." with â•
00:49:06	Barnabas:	We really need to freeze the spec and no more changes
00:49:14	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "We really need to fr..." with â•
00:49:17	Barnabas:	otherwise we might test something that is gonna give us misinformation
00:49:23	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "otherwise we might t..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:49:47	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We really need to fr..." with â•
00:49:53	Marius:	I think we need to start ramping up testing in parallel, so we have the infra in place fir devnet-3 specs
00:50:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I thought we decided to move the per-tx blob limit to the peerdas EIP, out of BPO parameters, no?
00:50:58	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "I thought we decided..." with â•
00:51:18	Barnabas:	Replying to "I thought we decided..."

yes but FLCL is arguing that it should not be removed
00:51:33	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I thought we decided..."

ah okay sorry, understood it the other way around
00:53:38	Marius:	I thought we wanted max at 6?
00:53:49	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "I thought we wanted ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:51	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I thought we wanted ..." with ğŸ‘
00:53:53	Francesco:	Reacted to "I thought we wanted ..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:19	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I thought we wanted ..." with ğŸ‘
00:55:32	Marius:	We only allow 6 in our txpool
00:55:39	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think we made that decision on acde two weeks ago (the one I filled in for Tim): move max out of BPO and set it to 6.

So if we want to revisit, we should do that on acde. but might be too late to change for Fusaka.
00:55:51	Marius:	Also you need to go through the txpool anyway for the proof changes
00:58:48	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

we still donâ€™t have a modification for this in eip-7892
00:58:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think we discussed the in-protocol vs pure in-mempool restriction for quite a while. I personally liked the in-mempool only approach, but overall most people preferred in-protocol
00:58:56	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

unless i missed that?
00:59:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://ethpandaops.io/posts/gaslimit-scaling/
00:59:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

should I have followed up on this? I stopped thinking about these topics when the call was over
00:59:56	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://ethpandaops...." with ğŸ”¥
01:00:00	Ben Adams:	wen CLs gaslimit
01:00:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-7892.md#L124
01:00:24	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

yeah EIP changes need to be tracked, otherwise its gonna be lost in the echo
01:00:25	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

lol
01:00:33	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	We will merge it soon
01:00:36	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "https://ethpandaops...." with ğŸ”¥
01:00:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "https://ethpandaops...." with ğŸ”¥
01:00:39	nflaig:	will get it in our next release (1-2 weeks)
01:00:42	Ameziane Hamlat:	On besu, we should have a release out on Wednesday. Weâ€™re in the process of testing the new release : sync, performance regression, ..etct
01:01:05	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://ethpandaops...." with ğŸ”¥
01:01:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

and thatâ€™s something Tim normally does?
01:01:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

anyway I guess now he is back, how convenient :-)
01:02:28	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think we made that..."

he makes sure someone is assigned to change the spec yes
01:02:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "he makes sure someon..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:37	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "he makes sure someon..." with ğŸ‘
