WEBVTT

1
00:19:10.040 --> 00:19:11.220
Mario Vega: Good morning!

2
00:19:14.070 --> 00:19:15.100
Pooja Ranjan: Good morning!

3
00:19:40.760 --> 00:19:47.149
Mario Vega: I was planning on recording this locally, but I think it's not necessary. Or what do you think, Pooja?

4
00:19:47.150 --> 00:19:49.330
Pooja Ranjan: It is going in cloud right now. So it's all.

5
00:19:50.050 --> 00:19:51.000
Mario Vega: Oh, cool.

6
00:19:51.130 --> 00:19:52.069
Mario Vega: Thank you.

7
00:20:03.530 --> 00:20:09.999
Pooja Ranjan: I'm just starting the pre-streaming video. Whenever you are ready, let us know, so we can move over the stream.

8
00:20:12.290 --> 00:20:15.850
Mario Vega: Awesome. Thank you. I think a couple of minutes more and we can start.

9
00:20:16.800 --> 00:20:17.560
Pooja Ranjan: Sounds good.

10
00:20:49.190 --> 00:20:51.380
Justin Florentine (Besu): Good morning. Etherneauts.

11
00:20:54.500 --> 00:20:55.470
Mario Vega: Good morning.

12
00:21:27.230 --> 00:21:33.610
Mario Vega: Just a couple more minutes, and we can start. I think we can start by the 8 and 2 min. If that's okay.

13
00:21:37.885 --> 00:21:41.849
Mario Vega: talking about my time, but 14 utc.

14
00:21:54.660 --> 00:21:57.620
Mario Vega: And Justin. I got the list, and I added to the

15
00:21:58.430 --> 00:22:01.459
Mario Vega: I have a tracker. I'll share it later in the meeting.

16
00:22:30.060 --> 00:22:33.419
Mario Vega: Alright. I think I think we can start with you if that's okay.

17
00:22:34.390 --> 00:22:35.340
Pooja Ranjan: Real life.

18
00:22:36.380 --> 00:22:37.160
Mario Vega: Perfect.

19
00:22:38.480 --> 00:22:46.350
Mario Vega: Hello, everyone. Welcome to acor depth testing number 36 today is May 12, th and we have

20
00:22:46.600 --> 00:22:49.419
Mario Vega: 5 items in the agenda to discuss today.

21
00:22:50.019 --> 00:22:59.990
Mario Vega: And I think the most packed one is going to be the discussion on which Cfi dips. Are we going to include in the Fussaka net 0,

22
00:23:00.240 --> 00:23:08.609
Mario Vega: along with beerdas and a couple more of the topics to discuss is block scale incution in the Cl.

23
00:23:08.960 --> 00:23:12.799
Mario Vega: And a discussion about history expiry.

24
00:23:13.260 --> 00:23:16.170
Mario Vega: So I think

25
00:23:16.880 --> 00:23:35.700
Mario Vega: we're ready to start. And yeah, the 1st item I wanted to bring up the discussion. But I think it's not going to be that much necessary. Is any Petra related discussions from last Wednesday that anybody wants to bring up today either findings or any relevant points or topics

26
00:23:36.010 --> 00:23:40.400
Mario Vega: about the the fork that anyone has in mind and wants to share.

27
00:23:52.830 --> 00:24:01.369
Mario Vega: and Miguel is raising a point in the chat. The deposit mechanism transition has been successfully finished 17 h after the fork.

28
00:24:01.510 --> 00:24:10.800
Mario Vega: so it pull it on the it. One underscore data pool can be safely removed. And this might matter for the history expiry discussion. Thank you, Kyle.

29
00:24:12.080 --> 00:24:13.449
Mario Vega: That's very good news.

30
00:24:15.700 --> 00:24:22.829
Mario Vega: Anything else for Petra findings or anything worth sharing?

31
00:24:31.780 --> 00:24:32.760
Mario Vega: All right.

32
00:24:36.830 --> 00:24:42.569
Mario Vega: Yeah, it was very smooth upgrade. Yeah, it was. It was great, very uneventful.

33
00:24:43.340 --> 00:24:49.540
Mario Vega: And James, from prism is highlighting that they are still looking into some performance. Things

34
00:24:49.880 --> 00:24:52.480
Mario Vega: I think that's expected and yeah

35
00:24:56.930 --> 00:25:03.890
Mario Vega: cool, if nothing else from Pector. I think we can just jump into the next topic. I have prepared a

36
00:25:04.060 --> 00:25:09.610
Mario Vega: tracker where I just try to consolidate the feeling or sentiment

37
00:25:10.030 --> 00:25:17.300
Mario Vega: regarding which Eaps should we introduce into the Fussaka Devnet 0.

38
00:25:17.560 --> 00:25:25.350
Mario Vega: Basically, this list is all of the Cf 5 eips for Forsaka and

39
00:25:25.720 --> 00:25:33.630
Mario Vega: I can start by summarizing the sentiment from steel, which is basically testing and specifications, eels and east.

40
00:25:33.750 --> 00:25:40.800
Mario Vega: and generally the we are only opposing one of the Eaps, but not strongly so.

41
00:25:41.210 --> 00:25:45.689
Mario Vega: and if it's decided in this meeting that it should be included, that's fine by us.

42
00:25:46.160 --> 00:25:57.200
Mario Vega: and that is the rip. 72, 12. But other than that. Still, team thinks that it's okay that should we add basically every other eap? That's

43
00:25:57.500 --> 00:26:14.309
Mario Vega: that the the rest of the teams consider important. So I think we can start just with the list and go each eip by eip, and then we can just hear opinions. If anyone's here in the meeting that wants to raise an opposing opinion, or or for opinion.

44
00:26:14.960 --> 00:26:16.370
Mario Vega: Jaspernos.

45
00:26:16.840 --> 00:26:25.567
Barnabas: Yeah, just I think it would be a bit quicker to go through the period of testing 1st before we dive into the what should be included in the next one.

46
00:26:26.325 --> 00:26:32.379
Barnabas: Because I I'm worried, we're gonna be running out of time. And we're not gonna have time to give a previous update.

47
00:26:32.600 --> 00:26:35.980
Mario Vega: Yeah, okay, that sounds fine, is Will.

48
00:26:36.340 --> 00:26:40.460
Mario Vega: Here in the are you? Are you ready for? Give an update.

49
00:26:41.510 --> 00:27:10.450
Barnabas: I can give an update on like the latest on 7 so we just launched on Friday, and we had flu for this morning we had our spammer break running full fork, but it's been fixed, and we've been spamming blobs. And we have a hundred percent participation for now we're still waiting for different El teams to get on boarded Bazoo, and still don't have any validators, and they don't seem to have a full branch right now.

50
00:27:10.520 --> 00:27:12.889
Barnabas: but hopefully we can onboard them soon.

51
00:27:15.980 --> 00:27:17.589
Barnabas: and that's about it.

52
00:27:23.540 --> 00:27:29.010
Mario Vega: Alright, thanks. Will. Do. You want to go over the peer desks?

53
00:27:29.470 --> 00:27:30.920
Mario Vega: Updates first.st

54
00:27:32.672 --> 00:27:44.227
Will Corcoran: Sure. Yeah, thanks, Barnabas. I I think that's kind of the major update is shipping. Wnes 7, and activating the flu fork on that this morning.

55
00:27:44.890 --> 00:27:47.000
Will Corcoran: There's still the

56
00:27:47.320 --> 00:28:06.360
Will Corcoran: item. I don't know if Justin's on the call, but we were trying to urge people to make some decisions on the Bpo block. Blob schedule. So that could be merged last Friday. It looks like it has been merged. I don't know if there's still people that are in decision on that, or what we could do to advance that.

57
00:28:07.320 --> 00:28:14.080
Justin Traglia: We were just waiting until after this call to merge it. So I'll merge it soon, and then I'll make an Apr. To back port it to Deneb.

58
00:28:14.350 --> 00:28:15.700
Justin Traglia: So it's the plan.

59
00:28:16.700 --> 00:28:17.290
Will Corcoran: Great.

60
00:28:19.600 --> 00:28:21.130
Will Corcoran: Yeah, I think that

61
00:28:21.300 --> 00:28:30.879
Will Corcoran: I don't know unless anyone feels otherwise. Those were the major things that I had kind of documented on the list. There's a handful of other

62
00:28:31.723 --> 00:28:39.260
Will Corcoran: small open Apis around the Beacon Api, or sorry open Prs, but nothing, Major.

63
00:28:42.905 --> 00:28:47.530
Justin Traglia: Terrence, was your question about that 0 spec about the blob schedule stuff.

64
00:28:47.870 --> 00:28:49.150
terence: Yeah. The Bpo.

65
00:28:49.600 --> 00:28:53.170
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I think it should be part of dead, not 0, in my opinion.

66
00:29:01.640 --> 00:29:05.790
Barnabas: Also. What should be the timeline we are thinking about for Demo 0.

67
00:29:07.260 --> 00:29:10.530
Barnabas: Maybe in 2 weeks time. Is that realistic for everyone.

68
00:29:13.290 --> 00:29:14.670
terence: Our altar. Cleanse

69
00:29:14.840 --> 00:29:26.229
terence: team here. Yeah, I I think 2 weeks is fine. Even one week should be fine. What depends on what we want. Right? I just say we're finalizing the eip scope here.

70
00:29:28.570 --> 00:29:41.980
Barnabas: Yeah, I I'm not sure if you want to include any vips in the net 0 other than the Bpo. We can also have, like the net one with all the agreed upon vips that we agree on today.

71
00:29:42.630 --> 00:29:47.509
terence: If it's just Bpo like, speak for prison team. Of course I think we can do this in one week.

72
00:30:07.656 --> 00:30:11.019
Mario Vega: How is the rest of the team's feeling about this?

73
00:30:12.430 --> 00:30:13.910
Mario Vega: Can the yields chime in.

74
00:30:23.000 --> 00:30:33.370
Justin Florentine (Besu): A/C's cool with 2 weeks just to level set. That would be the get engine stuff, the cell transaction validation and Bpo hard forks.

75
00:30:39.570 --> 00:30:47.849
Mario Vega: Just to clarify. This is talking about the Bpo only, and not none of the other Cfi eips. Is that is that correct?

76
00:30:49.160 --> 00:30:51.159
Justin Florentine (Besu): So not the pure dos ones.

77
00:30:51.540 --> 00:30:54.250
Justin Florentine (Besu): because there's there's pure dos work to be done on the El.

78
00:30:56.410 --> 00:31:00.019
Mario Vega: I'm sorry I meant the rest of the Cfi. Yeah.

79
00:31:00.020 --> 00:31:00.350
Justin Florentine (Besu): That's it.

80
00:31:00.910 --> 00:31:01.300
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah.

81
00:31:09.760 --> 00:31:11.839
Mario Vega: Any other comments from eels.

82
00:31:17.795 --> 00:31:39.560
Marcin Sobczak: We will be ready. What? Whatever will be decided to be added? But it's a bit unclear for me, like what we need to to add on top of the net 7 like, what's the the features you're talking about to to add in this net 0 in 2 weeks.

83
00:31:41.390 --> 00:31:42.480
Barnabas: The Bpo.

84
00:31:46.000 --> 00:31:48.350
Marcin Sobczak: And only if that's true, so we cannot.

85
00:31:51.940 --> 00:32:09.760
Mario Vega: So just to summarize, this would be the 1st devnet devnet 0 for fusica. It will contain pure Das and Bpo, only none of the other cf, 5 eips would be included. So basically, would this be the same as Devnet 7. Or

86
00:32:10.040 --> 00:32:12.259
Mario Vega: is there anything else included? Wanos.

87
00:32:12.260 --> 00:32:22.850
Barnabas: I think we can agree upon that today, especially if there's some very obvious and tiny vips that couldn't like delay launch in 2 weeks.

88
00:32:25.730 --> 00:32:48.580
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I would just add that we definitely want to stick to that timeline. So let's only choose stuff that we think we can hit there, and the main reason for having a more rigid timeline is that we do have an in person meeting in June, and we would like to at least have one devnet through where we can find some issues rather than having everything in a devnet and not hitting the deadline.

89
00:33:03.550 --> 00:33:14.238
Mario Vega: Okay, so does does it sound reasonable for us to include 2 of the Cf 5 eaps from what I can see right now in the list of

90
00:33:14.760 --> 00:33:22.169
Mario Vega: of each client the most requested one, or the most important one for all teams seems to be the mothexp

91
00:33:22.480 --> 00:33:29.710
Mario Vega: related per compiled. So that is 78, 23, and 78, 83.

92
00:33:29.930 --> 00:33:32.109
Mario Vega: It adds on the top of the

93
00:33:32.260 --> 00:33:45.290
Mario Vega: of the list of every single client, and I think those are. Those 2 are pretty straightforward and can even be tested like it's a very straightforward we can make a prep prepare a release of tests in the next couple of weeks.

94
00:33:45.760 --> 00:33:48.999
Mario Vega: and should be included, that, in my opinion.

95
00:33:49.740 --> 00:33:52.010
Mario Vega: does that sound reasonable for everyone.

96
00:33:55.640 --> 00:33:58.939
Justin Florentine (Besu): When you say included, are you referring to Devnet 0 or Devnet one.

97
00:33:59.540 --> 00:34:02.819
Mario Vega: That would be Devnet 0, that is, in 2 weeks.

98
00:34:02.820 --> 00:34:09.170
Justin Florentine (Besu): We would prefer those to go into a devnet one. We would prefer to see the pure dos and Bpo stuff in isolation.

99
00:34:17.290 --> 00:34:27.299
Roman: I mean from from the suggestion. This means the devnet 0 would be only testing the detail bit because Paradise is already being tested right now, now.

100
00:34:37.020 --> 00:34:42.070
Ben Adams: What exactly is the would the Bpi be testing? Because

101
00:34:42.659 --> 00:34:46.089
Ben Adams: unless you're having lots of Mini forks, is it really.

102
00:34:47.639 --> 00:34:48.289
Roman: Yeah, true.

103
00:34:48.290 --> 00:34:49.820
Barnabas: That's what we want to test.

104
00:34:50.100 --> 00:35:08.500
Barnabas: We, we can have a bunch of Bpo tests on this. Basically, we're gonna be bumping up count the target and the Max. And we're gonna be dropping it back down. Then we gonna drop it or push it back up and drop it back down. So basically, we want to test all the functionality of the Bpo's.

105
00:35:23.380 --> 00:35:27.460
Mario Vega: Anyone else has posing or comments

106
00:35:27.760 --> 00:35:30.800
Mario Vega: on Bpo. Only fork for Devnet 0 in 2 weeks.

107
00:35:38.110 --> 00:35:44.529
Marcin Sobczak: And never mind, he's fine with it. If we decide to add modex it's fine, too.

108
00:35:46.420 --> 00:35:52.939
Roman: Yeah, ref's preference would be to include modex. But if we don't, that's fine.

109
00:35:57.880 --> 00:35:59.670
Marius: It also doesn't count.

110
00:36:01.100 --> 00:36:04.499
lightclient: Yeah, well, is there a reason to not include MoD. X. Right now?

111
00:36:09.870 --> 00:36:19.180
Justin Florentine (Besu): For us. It's a timing issue and simply isolation of pure dos testing. So Baysu is not fully on the pure dos. Devnet.

112
00:36:27.940 --> 00:36:33.850
Barnabas: We don't necessarily need to include bezel also in or in 0.

113
00:36:35.310 --> 00:36:37.770
Justin Florentine (Besu): I missed that, Barnabas, you're super muffled.

114
00:36:47.490 --> 00:36:50.039
Mario Vega: Barnabas, we missed your comment. Could you repeat? Please.

115
00:36:52.160 --> 00:36:58.100
Barnabas: Yeah, I'm not sure if it's better now, or it's too bad.

116
00:36:58.410 --> 00:36:59.969
Will Corcoran: Yes, that sounds better.

117
00:37:00.900 --> 00:37:09.809
Barnabas: Yeah, okay, so it's also possible that we do not include Bezu then in

118
00:37:10.438 --> 00:37:16.859
Barnabas: like, right now, Devnet 7 is basically for meant to be for peerless testing.

119
00:37:16.990 --> 00:37:19.920
Barnabas: This would be very good if busy would have a

120
00:37:20.650 --> 00:37:25.889
Barnabas: non bpo, but a pure death, or the branch that we could be testing on

121
00:37:26.200 --> 00:37:33.040
Barnabas: on this feature, because right now we are basically like calling back features just because Bezoo is not yet on

122
00:37:33.520 --> 00:37:42.370
Barnabas: and period of time. Not so I would I would actually push for having modexp in 11 0,

123
00:37:42.710 --> 00:37:45.640
Barnabas: and have all those features tested as well.

124
00:37:45.880 --> 00:37:49.179
Barnabas: especially if all the Es are on board except Peso.

125
00:37:51.330 --> 00:37:55.999
Barnabas: and then try to push to be included in this one.

126
00:38:04.940 --> 00:38:08.910
Mario Vega: I mean, watch Devnet 0 without all the clients. I think that's fine.

127
00:38:11.810 --> 00:38:23.280
Andrew Ashikhmin: So I have a question about Ps. We are working to implement it on the Cl. Side in Kaplan. But is there anything required on the Yale side.

128
00:38:23.410 --> 00:38:26.369
Andrew Ashikhmin: because we we won't be ready in in 2 weeks.

129
00:38:26.540 --> 00:38:33.080
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, on the sales side. But maybe, if if yeah, so, is it something kind of trivial on the outside.

130
00:38:36.070 --> 00:38:39.050
Andrew Ashikhmin: Oh, no changes at all on the L. Side.

131
00:38:41.120 --> 00:38:42.310
Andrew Ashikhmin: Poopia does.

132
00:38:46.537 --> 00:38:53.979
Parithosh Jayanthi: Maybe one of the El Devs can talk about the change set, but last I checked it shouldn't be a very massive change set.

133
00:38:54.600 --> 00:38:56.910
Andrew Ashikhmin: But there is a kind of a there is a change.

134
00:38:57.270 --> 00:38:58.670
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, there is a change.

135
00:38:59.685 --> 00:39:00.070
Andrew Ashikhmin: Okay.

136
00:39:08.400 --> 00:39:10.659
Mario Vega: And some just share the

137
00:39:11.440 --> 00:39:15.529
Mario Vega: the Pr. For the execution. Apis. I think that's the main chain right? The engine Api.

138
00:39:16.540 --> 00:39:22.439
Parithosh Jayanthi: There was also a networking change. Maybe Roman has some details on how large the changes were.

139
00:39:22.990 --> 00:39:31.690
Roman: Yeah, it's a small networking change to treat the proofs differently. And and then mostly the engine Api changes.

140
00:39:34.920 --> 00:39:52.010
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah. For us, the engine Api is less of a concern than it is the checking, the cell proofs on the transactions that are incoming. We have an issue with our native crypto integration that popped up. Somebody was reporting it in discord, and so we need to nail that down before

141
00:39:52.380 --> 00:39:55.139
Justin Florentine (Besu): being certain we could ship the cell proofs.

142
00:40:05.440 --> 00:40:12.049
Marcin Sobczak: Yeah, so summarizing it. There is not a lot of changes, but they are definitely not trivial.

143
00:40:16.910 --> 00:40:21.650
Mario Vega: And Kevin in the chat is mentioning, is asking for details on the on the issue. Justin.

144
00:40:27.650 --> 00:40:53.584
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, I was gonna post those in the chat. It's a we're like, I said, we're still investigating it. It's a really weird packaging issue. That's very, very isolated to like osx on intel type use case. So it's weird and we don't understand it, which is got us reluctant to moving forward but, on the other hand, it's an almost negligible proportion of our client base. So

145
00:40:54.150 --> 00:40:57.130
Justin Florentine (Besu): we need to understand this issue better before we disregard it.

146
00:40:59.280 --> 00:41:00.239
Barnabas: Could we not

147
00:41:00.340 --> 00:41:06.520
Barnabas: use a branch to test? In the meantime? I mean, I understand that this is a super niche bug.

148
00:41:06.730 --> 00:41:12.680
Barnabas: but in the same time. It would be very valuable, I think, to have Bezo on boarded on 11, 7.

149
00:41:16.620 --> 00:41:22.280
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, nobody's debating the value of having it done. It's just not ready yet.

150
00:41:34.270 --> 00:41:41.419
Mario Vega: Okay, it seems like, also, we are divided on MoD. Xp, should we defer that decision until

151
00:41:42.865 --> 00:41:46.629
Mario Vega: Acde, because it seems like a

152
00:41:47.640 --> 00:41:56.379
Mario Vega: if there's issues right now, with pure desk alone, it might be it might delay even further. If we include MoD. Xp.

153
00:41:58.310 --> 00:42:03.460
Mario Vega: That's just the sentiment I feel any thoughts.

154
00:42:10.170 --> 00:42:12.540
Barnabas: Didn't sound like a pure death issue to me.

155
00:42:22.160 --> 00:42:26.410
Mario Vega: And Tim is asking in the in the chat if there's other clients with issues at the moment.

156
00:42:35.930 --> 00:42:39.450
Tim Beiko: Yeah. And I guess maybe to expand on that a little bit is I.

157
00:42:39.800 --> 00:43:01.310
Tim Beiko: If we do have it seems like we have rest. Geth another mind who could start working on MoD. Xp, I feel like there's value in trying to get 3 clients to interrupt. And, you know, find any potential issues in MoD. Xp. Given how uncontentious the eips are. So that's

158
00:43:01.760 --> 00:43:30.109
Tim Beiko: I would personally bias towards having them included in Devnet 0 even if it means like, yeah, we don't have all clients on day one for definite 0. They're also pretty trivial eips. So you can even imagine something where, like, you know, if say, base 2 is fixing their bug and doesn't make it for devnet 0 at all by definition. One like the incremental work to add, MoD. Xp. Should be pretty small, so they could maybe like join straight into Devnet one or something like that. But I

159
00:43:30.410 --> 00:43:32.973
Tim Beiko: I feel like MoD. Xp is so

160
00:43:33.971 --> 00:43:38.390
Tim Beiko: I don't unanimously like desired that we should just get

161
00:43:38.610 --> 00:43:54.160
Tim Beiko: testing it asap, and then it also gives us the more time. If we, if we've like, confirmed those to have further discussions in Acd about like what would be the bigger features we'd want to bring for Devnet one while keeping the focus on, peered us. And, like, you know.

162
00:43:54.420 --> 00:43:57.009
Tim Beiko: relatively small changes in the next couple of weeks.

163
00:44:02.240 --> 00:44:08.443
Mario Vega: Yeah, also, we can start preparing the tests. In the in this week. And we're gonna prioritize prioritize

164
00:44:08.990 --> 00:44:09.980
Mario Vega: modexp.

165
00:44:17.540 --> 00:44:21.740
Mario Vega: Some mentions that we should add the payoff code.

166
00:44:21.980 --> 00:44:26.109
Mario Vega: But it feels to me that that's higher complexity than modexp.

167
00:44:27.730 --> 00:44:31.920
Mario Vega: So maybe we should defer that discussion for devnet one. If that's okay.

168
00:44:32.120 --> 00:44:36.500
Mario Vega: Or does anybody feel like we should definitely include it in definite 0?

169
00:44:37.280 --> 00:44:38.250
Mario Vega: Yeah, Johan.

170
00:44:38.410 --> 00:44:49.039
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): I just wanted to say, I don't think we should include it for def net 0. And that's also because I have a Pr open for pay, because the current eip is not.

171
00:44:49.660 --> 00:44:54.080
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): and it misses some edge edge cases from the erp.

172
00:44:54.250 --> 00:45:02.639
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): and if there is some some offer of the pay opcode. Here, then, please review this eip, because I really want to get this in the Fussaka

173
00:45:02.850 --> 00:45:09.030
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): that none of the authors had has left on review there yet, so would be really helpful.

174
00:45:16.840 --> 00:45:17.540
Mario Vega: Cool.

175
00:45:17.980 --> 00:45:29.160
Mario Vega: Okay, it sounds like we have a decision at the moment. So just to summarize devnet 0 in 2 weeks, that is, that includes peer does, and Bop

176
00:45:29.450 --> 00:45:35.729
Mario Vega: ppo sorry, and the 2 MoD. X eips.

177
00:45:35.890 --> 00:45:42.520
Mario Vega: and that is, Eap 78, 23, and eap 78, 83.

178
00:45:49.680 --> 00:45:53.340
Mario Vega: Are there any opposing opinions?

179
00:46:07.890 --> 00:46:12.559
Mario Vega: Cool? Okay? So I think it sounds like we have a plan. Great.

180
00:46:14.570 --> 00:46:17.790
Mario Vega: Yeah. Anyway, I have this this other document.

181
00:46:20.210 --> 00:46:27.400
Mario Vega: I I we can continue on adding things to this, and just please keep an eye on it. If there's

182
00:46:27.820 --> 00:46:36.599
Mario Vega: any opinions on the rest of the Eaps. Please just reach out. And we can just discuss for the Eaps that we have one to include them in one.

183
00:46:38.790 --> 00:46:42.395
Mario Vega: Okay, cool.

184
00:46:43.270 --> 00:46:51.879
Mario Vega: yeah. And going back to peer, does, I think we we cut that off will. Is there any other discussion on Peer? Does that needs to be had.

185
00:46:57.371 --> 00:46:58.929
Will Corcoran: No, I don't believe so.

186
00:47:01.210 --> 00:47:06.499
FLCL: Raise a small suggestion to limit book count per transaction.

187
00:47:08.410 --> 00:47:13.170
FLCL: To like who?

188
00:47:16.490 --> 00:47:20.040
FLCL: Maybe not to the next network

189
00:47:20.760 --> 00:47:29.470
FLCL: webinars. But maybe we could discuss it and confirm potential inclusion like 2, not one or so.

190
00:47:32.450 --> 00:47:46.200
FLCL: So the idea is to bring additional field that would mean that, like in range of

191
00:47:46.340 --> 00:47:53.610
FLCL: in time. Range of current fork. Transaction cannot hold more blobs than bloat.

192
00:48:02.710 --> 00:48:04.050
Mario Vega: Yes, ma'am.

193
00:48:06.300 --> 00:48:26.427
Marcin Sobczak: Yes, it will be extremely helpful to to have a cap on Max. Number of blocks per transactions like. If we I mean having, like Max blocks per block at let's say 72, and then, like having 72 block transactions will be like

194
00:48:26.870 --> 00:48:40.939
Marcin Sobczak: harder to handle than than transactions with with lower amount of blobs. And we see no point in in allowing such a big amount of data in in one transaction. So

195
00:48:40.940 --> 00:48:57.580
Marcin Sobczak: having a cap on on blocks per transactions to 1215, or whatever will make our life simpler. And yes, we would like to to have something like that. If if there is no position.

196
00:49:07.620 --> 00:49:08.590
Mario Vega: Disturbance.

197
00:49:09.170 --> 00:49:18.749
terence: Yeah. So I agree. I also raised my hand as well, I think, like another venue. To bring this up is at the local, because this

198
00:49:18.900 --> 00:49:27.390
terence: will change how layer 2 raw batch poster work. Typically because today, like

199
00:49:27.390 --> 00:49:51.039
terence: their tools, they typically some there, too, they post one blob per transaction, but some of them actually do prefer batching as much as they can to essentially amortize the execution tip amount, because currently the tape is specified in the execution format rather than the blob da format. Because of that there is a cost saving that you can do

200
00:49:51.080 --> 00:50:14.449
terence: to essentially batch post blobs like for the bigger amount, such that you just have to pick the tip once. So I guess the raw venue will be like, well, like, yeah, definitely can bring some raw venue. I don't see this reason not to do this, but you'll be good to give Rob a little bit of heads up, because this because because this this will change how they work.

201
00:50:14.470 --> 00:50:28.070
terence: And then I and it's also worth mentioning. Different rob, or slightly different, like base OP Stack office. They like they like like they they all work di-differently here.

202
00:50:33.880 --> 00:50:34.910
Mario Vega: Yes, Francis.

203
00:50:37.786 --> 00:50:40.353
Francis Li: Yeah, I agree with Terrace, I think.

204
00:50:41.050 --> 00:51:09.129
Francis Li: this. There's no reason to not have it. And I guess my suggestion, or like my like, 2 cents here is that, can we maybe tentatively include it and have clients start working on it. And we just kind of like give it a like initial tentative number 9 or whatever to start with. And then we, we can start gathering like information and stuff. But I feel like the work can be started. Now.

205
00:51:16.440 --> 00:51:19.500
Mario Vega: Just for context. Do we have an eip number in this?

206
00:51:20.290 --> 00:51:21.830
Mario Vega: How does that work in progress

207
00:51:38.870 --> 00:51:46.120
Mario Vega: assume? No, no eap now? And yes, I think we can.

208
00:51:47.510 --> 00:51:50.310
Mario Vega: I don't know if it if it's a good call to add it

209
00:51:50.520 --> 00:51:57.099
Mario Vega: to Devnet 0. I don't think so. It feels to me that if we add this, it should be added to Devnet one at least.

210
00:52:03.190 --> 00:52:11.479
Francis Li: I don't think they're the eip for that, but I do remember seeing a consensus spec. Pr for that, if I remember correctly.

211
00:52:13.550 --> 00:52:15.460
Derek G: Yeah, there's a Pr linked in the chat.

212
00:52:22.890 --> 00:52:23.650
Mario Vega: Thank you.

213
00:52:31.540 --> 00:52:33.490
Mario Vega: Just get Kevin Kevin.

214
00:52:35.694 --> 00:52:44.415
Kevaundray Wedderburn: Yeah, I vaguely remember that being this proposal to have a 10 MB limit on the transaction size

215
00:52:45.200 --> 00:52:50.049
Kevaundray Wedderburn: does. Does this limit also include the number of blobs that are in the transaction.

216
00:52:53.860 --> 00:53:00.049
Mario Vega: I think what that was a block limit. Right? If I'm not mistaken, you're talking about 79, 34,

217
00:53:00.270 --> 00:53:06.050
Mario Vega: and that's Rlp execution, log size, and I don't think it will be included because it's only

218
00:53:06.160 --> 00:53:11.440
Mario Vega: the Rrlp which does not include the network version of the transaction. So I don't think this is?

219
00:53:13.620 --> 00:53:15.110
Mario Vega: Or do you mean like.

220
00:53:15.110 --> 00:53:16.460
Kevaundray Wedderburn: Think there was a

221
00:53:17.610 --> 00:53:23.049
Kevaundray Wedderburn: oh, I thought there was one to limit the size of a particular transaction on the P. 2 P. Network or.

222
00:53:23.810 --> 00:53:28.790
Ben Adams: There's 1 to limit the gas of the transaction.

223
00:53:28.790 --> 00:53:30.210
Kevaundray Wedderburn: Okay, I see. Right?

224
00:53:30.390 --> 00:53:31.900
Kevaundray Wedderburn: Yeah, not that one. Yeah.

225
00:53:42.330 --> 00:53:45.620
Mario Vega: Francis, I see that your hand's still up. Do you have other comments? Or

226
00:53:45.730 --> 00:53:47.020
Mario Vega: was that from the last time.

227
00:53:48.190 --> 00:53:49.830
Francis Li: Oh, it was from last time. Sorry.

228
00:53:57.650 --> 00:54:04.430
Mario Vega: Alright any other opinions on this topic. It feels to me that it's deferred at least to 11

229
00:54:09.480 --> 00:54:11.630
Mario Vega: unless anyone wants to chime in.

230
00:54:21.450 --> 00:54:28.829
Mario Vega: Okay, if not, we can move on. Next topic would be

231
00:54:30.037 --> 00:54:36.652
Mario Vega: this pr, it was raised as a topic by Alex. I don't know if he's in the call.

232
00:54:38.090 --> 00:54:40.200
Mario Vega: this is the the link to the Pr.

233
00:54:40.380 --> 00:54:45.089
Mario Vega: And it hasn't merged. I don't know if there's any other things that you want to add

234
00:54:45.770 --> 00:54:50.110
Mario Vega: to this topic Justin or Alex.

235
00:54:53.680 --> 00:54:56.460
Justin Traglia: No, we talked about this just a little bit ago.

236
00:54:56.660 --> 00:54:58.020
Justin Traglia: I've just merged it.

237
00:55:04.930 --> 00:55:07.050
Mario Vega: Okay, cool sounds good.

238
00:55:11.120 --> 00:55:20.799
Mario Vega: if nothing to discuss about that, we can just move into history. Expiry. Barnabas, I think that you were going to discuss this today, or was it baritosh?

239
00:55:23.160 --> 00:55:25.990
Barnabas: Yeah, I can try to discuss

240
00:55:30.120 --> 00:55:32.469
Barnabas: my keeps dropping off. Sorry

241
00:55:33.942 --> 00:55:51.309
Barnabas: so we wanted to begin testing history expiry. Possibly the portal. And we have asked them to add the support, for so we can try to do arbitrary history drop at any specific height.

242
00:55:52.180 --> 00:55:54.380
Barnabas: This is still work in progress.

243
00:55:55.066 --> 00:56:07.149
Barnabas: Regarding dropping history in Oppolio and Mainnet, we were discussing to push the possible deadline for that to next month. So, like 1st of June first.st The polio.

244
00:56:07.490 --> 00:56:09.500
Barnabas: How would everyone feel about that?

245
00:56:09.620 --> 00:56:12.489
Barnabas: Because the original deadline was 1st of May?

246
00:56:13.220 --> 00:56:19.709
Barnabas: But I think we still have some. Yeah, that's that haven't defaulted to dropping history on support. Yeah.

247
00:56:24.130 --> 00:56:26.540
Barnabas: this is a pretty much history, only.

248
00:56:31.780 --> 00:56:50.209
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, and in terms of readiness. Please, also include like documentation or user guides, or something that we can point to and test, especially for a public test net. So would you guys be okay with 1st of June as a deadline for including documentation.

249
00:56:58.760 --> 00:57:00.850
Justin Florentine (Besu): Base. He's fine with one gin.

250
00:57:18.960 --> 00:57:20.309
Mario Vega: Any other yields.

251
00:57:27.153 --> 00:57:34.409
Marius: I don't. I cannot say anything to that yet. We have it in the code

252
00:57:35.494 --> 00:57:44.320
Marius: but it's hidden behind the flag. With probably not going to

253
00:57:45.090 --> 00:57:50.369
Marius: enable it by default. For quite some time. So

254
00:57:51.507 --> 00:57:58.650
Marius: yeah. But I think we would probably be able to create documentation in 2 weeks.

255
00:58:08.640 --> 00:58:10.349
Mario Vega: Any comments from Nethermind.

256
00:58:29.910 --> 00:58:32.340
Mario Vega: or any comments from Arragon or Red.

257
00:58:34.310 --> 00:58:37.580
Roman: I'm checking in with the team right now.

258
00:58:40.860 --> 00:58:47.709
Andrew Ashikhmin: In Aragon we have a Pr. In, but it's not merged yet, so we're still reviewing it and

259
00:58:48.400 --> 00:58:51.729
Andrew Ashikhmin: but in any case we want.

260
00:58:52.350 --> 00:58:56.959
Andrew Ashikhmin: Most likely we won't be. We won't make a release by the 1st of June.

261
00:58:57.100 --> 00:59:00.929
Andrew Ashikhmin: so we may. Maybe we'll make a release in in a couple of months.

262
00:59:09.070 --> 00:59:21.450
Parithosh Jayanthi: I guess that's 1 of the questions. Is there some reason we have to coordinate this across clients? Or is the understanding now that every client just enables history expiry whenever they're ready.

263
00:59:26.140 --> 00:59:37.210
Andrew Ashikhmin: I think we agreed to do it by by Fusaka. So I think, yeah, to me it sounds like as long as every client does it before it's okay.

264
00:59:40.330 --> 00:59:45.774
Marek Moraczyński: I think we don't have to coordinate it. And basically just

265
00:59:46.400 --> 01:00:01.160
Marek Moraczyński: say that we will not drop before before some date right? And this should be good enough coordination, and then it's up to client when exactly we will release something here.

266
01:00:10.570 --> 01:00:28.550
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think the main issue with that approach was we had agreed on a deadline of May first, st and essentially, it didn't happen. So the question is, are we just now setting arbitrary deadlines? Or is the 1st of May like the 1st of June? Does it have any purpose?

267
01:00:28.680 --> 01:00:31.470
Parithosh Jayanthi: Besides, just a signal.

268
01:00:32.960 --> 01:00:56.229
Justin Florentine (Besu): I think that's true. But okay, because the 1st one was arbitrary, and then we wanted to kind of delay it till after Petra shipped when so when Petra slipped a little bit, that was no longer the case. And so now we have another arbitrary deadline, which is fine. But it's after Petra, which is the point. So I think that's that's how I square that concern Perry.

269
01:00:57.880 --> 01:01:10.789
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, so we can set it as 1st of June, and then we just bring it up on the weekly meeting to see if there's any update and try to at least have some clients that are ready by then, I guess.

270
01:01:14.050 --> 01:01:17.369
Ben Adams: We can do on Sopalia.

271
01:01:19.130 --> 01:01:21.599
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, this was, this is answerable. Yeah.

272
01:01:41.770 --> 01:01:43.919
Mario Vega: Okay, sounds good.

273
01:01:44.770 --> 01:01:48.100
Mario Vega: Anything else regarding history expiry.

274
01:02:02.410 --> 01:02:06.069
Mario Vega: Okay? Just to summarize. We're expecting 1st of June

275
01:02:06.590 --> 01:02:11.910
Mario Vega: to be a release or document and our documentation for sepolia history expiry.

276
01:02:14.580 --> 01:02:20.329
Mario Vega: Great. Yeah, I think that's everything we had for the agenda today.

277
01:02:20.830 --> 01:02:24.410
Mario Vega: Is there any other topics that anyone wants to raise.

278
01:02:35.570 --> 01:02:36.330
Mario Vega: Okay?

279
01:02:36.670 --> 01:02:42.540
Mario Vega: Sounds good. Okay? So yeah, we can let everyone go with 20 min to spare.

280
01:02:42.830 --> 01:02:45.330
Mario Vega: Great thanks. Everyone for joining.

281
01:02:47.760 --> 01:02:48.830
Ansgar Dietrichs: Thanks. Everyone.

282
01:02:49.100 --> 01:02:49.950
Andrew Ashikhmin: Thank you.

283
01:02:49.950 --> 01:02:50.360
Dmitrii Shmatko: Bye.

284
01:02:50.570 --> 01:02:51.210
Mario Vega: Bye.

