00:15:36	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:15:51	jochem-brouwer:	gm
00:16:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	gm! after all, every morning is good if you can spend it on a call with Ethereum friends!
00:16:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "gm! after all, every..." with â¤ï¸
00:16:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "gm! after all, every..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:07	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1874
00:17:11	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "gm! after all, every..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:17	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "gm! after all, every..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:47	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1874#issuecomment-3784216424
00:18:14	Barnabas:	canâ€™t anyone just change those ?
00:18:16	Barnabas:	and we merge it in ?
00:18:33	Anna Thieser:	Reacted to "gm! after all, every..." with â¤ï¸
00:18:59	Ben Adams:	SlotNum EL change also needs a CL change
00:19:10	Barnabas:	Worked a bit on scoping:

https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-0 
https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-1
00:19:16	Barnabas:	Replying to "SlotNum EL change al..."

lh has it
00:19:18	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "SlotNum EL change al..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4840
00:19:35	Barnabas:	Replying to "Worked a bit on scop..."

if you notice something incorrect, please let me know.
00:20:54	Barnabas:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4843
00:21:17	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4826
00:21:55	kingy_sigp:	sorry I tuned out for a second it's 1am in aus -- lighthouse is making good progress. No firm timing yet but we're closing in on being able to interop with lh nodes internally within a few weeks.
00:22:18	Potuz:	similarly for Prysm
00:24:17	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Could we just round robin teams and ask? Can we have a devnet mid feb?
00:24:23	nixo:	Reacted to "gm! after all, every..." with â¤ï¸
00:24:32	Justin Traglia:	BAL requires a CL change though, no?
00:24:34	Felix (Geth):	Let's bring it on
00:24:39	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "BAL requires a CL ch..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:24:39	Felix (Geth):	Who can fork first
00:24:39	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	SLOTNUM as well
00:24:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "BAL requires a CL ch..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:24:50	Barnabas:	They are small changes tho
00:24:53	Ben Adams:	mini CL
00:24:54	Mario Vega:	Replying to "SLOTNUM as well"

THatâ€™s easier to remove BAL not so much?
00:24:55	kingy_sigp:	I think we could hit devnet 0 in a month at lighthouse but I'm hesitant to commit to that since we're still early
00:25:03	Leo:	Reacted to "Who can fork first" with ğŸ˜‚
00:25:50	nixo:	hegota is out. now heze and bogotÃ¡ are my best friends (all my visuals are tanked)
00:29:11	Potuz:	I think the "two forks a year" is more of a guideline to ship fast
00:29:23	kingy_sigp:	Reacted to "I think the "two for..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:27	Barnabas:	My suggestion:

28th of Jan - [bal-devnet-2](https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-2)
11th of Feb - bal-devnet-3 TBD
18th of Feb - [epbs-devnet-0 ](https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-0)
4th of Mar - [epbs-devnet-1](https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-1)
18th of Mar - epbs-devnet-2 TBD
1st of Apr - glamsterdam-devnet-0 - rebase everything over everything 
15th of Apr - glamsterdam-devnet-1 - every EIP added
00:29:30	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think the "two for..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:45	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "My suggestion:

28..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "My suggestion:

28th..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:56	Justin Florentine (Besu):	or ship an EL repricings only fork
00:29:59	Potuz:	By end of February you'll get a more reallistic deadline
00:30:01	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "hegota is out. now..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:03	Justin Traglia:	I donâ€™t think we should change the epbs scope
00:30:06	Francesco:	Just a few months ago people were still talking about adding focil to the scope
00:30:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:30:08	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:30:09	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we sho..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:30:10	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I donâ€™t think we ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:30:16	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Just a few months ag..." with ğŸ˜…
00:30:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Just a few months ag..." with ğŸ˜…
00:30:18	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Just a few months agâ€¦" with ğŸ˜…
00:30:19	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "Just a few months ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:30:22	Felix (Geth):	Replying to "Just a few months ..."

Everyone is always more optimistic early on
00:30:26	nixo:	Reacted to "Just a few months ag..." with ğŸ˜…
00:30:38	Francesco:	Replying to "Just a few months ag..."

That was like 2 months ago, not so early on
00:30:42	Potuz:	Replying to "Just a few months ag..."

it's still doable, just not with the deadlines people are talking about
00:30:44	Marius van der Wijden:	If there is anything that the EF can do to speed up epbs implementation in clients, please let us know!
00:30:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "If there is anything..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:31:07	Potuz:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

yes, not change the spec anymore :)
00:31:16	Potuz:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

I think discussions on this have ended, we can code now
00:31:23	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "yes, not change the ..." with ğŸ˜…
00:31:23	kingy_sigp:	I think a deadline of end of feb is achievable for devnet 0 - we can set the target if that helps motivate delivery but acknowledge it may not happen
00:31:29	Vukasin:	Reacted to "If there is anythi..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:31:30	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

Letâ€™s fix all the issues then ğŸ˜„
00:31:33	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I think a deadline..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Letâ€™s fix all the is..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:31:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think a deadline o..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	just as a side note, in the very unlikely case of a headliner being dropped from a fork, I donâ€™t think it would be proper to automatically schedule it for the next fork. that fork has its own scoping process, and there might be different priorities.
00:32:05	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Can CLs start to work on BALs and SLOTNUM in parallel to epbs, so we can ship that at least on the EL side
00:32:08	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "If there is anythi..."

What are the open issues that anyone sees at the moment with the current spec? Do they need to be figured out before devnet 0?
00:32:10	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think a deadline o..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:20	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Can CLs start to w..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:26	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can CLs start to wor..."

those changes are less than a single dayâ€™s of work
00:32:39	Daniel Lehrner (Besu):	Replying to "Can CLs start to wor..."

Famous last words ğŸ˜‚
00:32:46	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can CLs start to wor..."

it was done by LH in under a day
00:32:52	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can CLs start to wor..."

So I would assume its similar for every CL
00:33:10	Stefan Starflinger:	Replying to "Can CLs start to worâ€¦"
We have 2 CLs ready
00:34:28	kingy_sigp:	yep sounds good
00:34:40	Potuz:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

nothing for devnet 0, there are some things about forkchoice changes, something about PTC deadlines and some open questions about builder discovery, but devnet 0 is frozen essentially
00:35:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

Yeah I guess that can be sequenced into devnet-1?
00:36:09	Luca Donno | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "just as a side note,..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:46	Potuz:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

those are mostly not hard forks so can be slowly be added to the same devnet 0 being run
00:37:02	Potuz:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

hopefully
00:37:28	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "My suggestion:

28th..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:36	Potuz:	Replying to "If there is anything..."

let's get Kurtosis runs working first and then we'll see, we're still not close to being able to finalize a kurtosis run
00:37:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "let's get Kurtosis r..." with ğŸ”¥
00:37:51	Barnabas:	@Teku, can you let us know when we should be able to start spamming again?
00:38:24	Potuz:	is there any strong reason to spam on mainnet instead of Hoodi first?
00:38:31	Bharath:	We also need to start reviewing the builder-api specification for ePBS: https://github.com/ethereum/builder-specs/pull/138  
There are some minor updates that I am making to it today, but would definitely appreciate some running feedback on it.
00:38:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "is there any strong ..."

Didnâ€™t show up on hoodi or devnets
00:38:53	Barnabas:	Replying to "is there any strong ..."

we want to see proper network effects
00:39:09	Barnabas:	Replying to "We also need to star..."

devnet 1 scope?
00:39:14	Chris Berry:	Replying to "is there any strong ..."

Please give node operators a chance to get the mitigations in place before spamming mainnet.
00:39:19	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Please give node ope..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:39:36	Potuz:	Replying to "is there any strong ..."

if these things are not showing on testnets we probably need other testnets
00:39:38	Bharath:	Replying to "We also need to star..."

Regardless of scope, would be nice to get reviews on the spec
00:39:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "is there any strong ..."

The issue is that its impossible to clone mainnet on a p2p and mempool layer
00:39:55	Bharath:	Replying to "We also need to star..."

Can be done in parallel. But definitely not devnet-0, or even devnet-1 IMO
00:40:01	Potuz:	2 calls from now
00:40:10	Potuz:	we should be at least with a clear picture
00:40:14	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/727
00:40:19	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Can be done in paral..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:30	stokes:	Replying to "we should be at leas..."

great
00:40:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "is there any strong ..."

Ie we need to first understand why something broke on mainnet to be able to copy over the logic to a testnet, something we have not been able to do since mainnet is obfuscated and random
00:41:04	Potuz:	Replying to "We also need to star..."

I would not scope direct connections for devnet 1 but rather the p2p pipeline cause that will integrate most of the external builder work without the need to add a direct http handler
00:41:51	Bharath:	Replying to "We also need to star..."

Yup agreed. My intention is to get feedback so we can iterate the specs in parallel
00:43:49	Bharath:	Reacted to "I would not scope di..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:00	Potuz:	Prysm was running that early on wasn't it?
00:44:18	Stefan Starflinger:	Not compatible with lodestar
00:44:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Can we talk about partial cell proofs status too?
00:45:11	Potuz:	Reacted to "Can we talk about pa..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:42	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Can we talk about pa..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:10	Barnabas:	Can we also maybe get an update on 7688? Ssz lib updates ?
00:46:30	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Can we talk about pa..."

Hereâ€™s the spec PR: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4558
00:46:43	Potuz:	Prysm is looking into this
00:47:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Hereâ€™s the spec PR: ..." with â¤ï¸
00:48:16	kingy_sigp:	Replying to "Can we also maybe ge..."

7688 we're mostly done
00:49:10	kasey:	Replying to "Can we also maybe ge..."

Prysm hasnâ€™t focused on this yet but I chatted with Etan about it last week, it is on the radar.
00:50:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we also maybe ge..."

can we scope it for a not so soon bal devnet ?
00:51:26	Etan (Nimbus):	Replying to "Can we also maybe ge..."

whatâ€™s the process for that?
00:52:36	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Nopeâ€¦.
00:52:54	kingy_sigp:	yes pretty much
00:53:03	Etan (Nimbus):	epbs and fcr
