WEBVTT

1
00:15:31.800 --> 00:15:32.920
stokes: Hello.

2
00:15:35.160 --> 00:15:41.559
stokes: Let's see, let's give, maybe just another minute or two, and we'll get started.

3
00:16:48.270 --> 00:16:49.270
stokes: Okay.

4
00:16:49.590 --> 00:16:54.460
stokes: Josh, if you're helping with the stream, then I'm ready when you are.

5
00:16:57.960 --> 00:16:59.690
Josh Davis: Stream's live, go ahead.

6
00:17:00.140 --> 00:17:01.240
stokes: Okay, thanks.

7
00:17:02.140 --> 00:17:11.490
stokes: Hey everyone, welcome to ACDC number 173. It is issue 1874 in the PM repo.

8
00:17:11.880 --> 00:17:15.280
stokes: There's a link to the agenda that I just put in the chat.

9
00:17:15.640 --> 00:17:16.930
stokes: So…

10
00:17:17.180 --> 00:17:25.490
stokes: Yeah, today, just one quick housekeeping thing with Fusaka and the IPs, then we'll touch on Glamsterdam and Hagotov.

11
00:17:25.619 --> 00:17:32.020
stokes: So, yeah, otherwise, it's a pretty short agenda, so yeah, let's get into it.

12
00:17:32.850 --> 00:17:34.689
stokes: To kick things off.

13
00:17:35.030 --> 00:17:41.159
stokes: Pooja has a request, to adjust some of the statuses of a few EIPs from Fusaka.

14
00:17:41.460 --> 00:17:47.459
stokes: I don't know if Pooja's on this call, but let me just grab a link to this comment.

15
00:17:49.010 --> 00:18:02.429
stokes: It was EIP7607, 77723, 7594, and 7918, and I think they just need to have, the status changed.

16
00:18:02.790 --> 00:18:07.210
stokes: But yeah, if you were involved with one of those EIPs, please take a look.

17
00:18:07.780 --> 00:18:11.060
stokes: And yeah, we'll get that… Cut it up.

18
00:18:12.390 --> 00:18:13.250
stokes: Okay.

19
00:18:14.280 --> 00:18:23.880
stokes: Next then, we'll turn to Glamsterdam, and yeah, so I think the main thing for today is to discuss EPBS and the progress there.

20
00:18:24.500 --> 00:18:29.820
stokes: There was also a request to mention an engine API,

21
00:18:30.340 --> 00:18:32.840
stokes: issue, let's say, for BLs, but…

22
00:18:33.080 --> 00:18:36.239
stokes: First, let's have a little chat about EPBS.

23
00:18:36.460 --> 00:18:37.640
stokes: So…

24
00:18:38.320 --> 00:18:49.930
stokes: Yeah, I mean, maybe a good place to start would just be to ask, where clients are at. I know we had the spec changes that we were working through, even into the end of last year.

25
00:18:50.210 --> 00:18:55.190
stokes: And, you know, the next step now would be the EPVS DevNote 0.

26
00:18:56.420 --> 00:19:03.750
stokes: I don't believe we have the 7.0, and yeah, I think it'd be good to have a conversation about how we want to get there.

27
00:19:13.830 --> 00:19:16.170
stokes: So, any CL clients want to chime in?

28
00:19:18.520 --> 00:19:20.640
Stefan Bratanov: I can speak from ECHO.

29
00:19:23.210 --> 00:19:31.639
Stefan Bratanov: So… we have, basically, we're passing the spec ref test from Alpha 4.1.

30
00:19:31.760 --> 00:19:33.970
Stefan Bratanov: Apart from the folk choice tests.

31
00:19:34.440 --> 00:19:40.540
Stefan Bratanov: So, we're pretty much in the same situation as we were before the holidays, but just passing the new specs.

32
00:19:40.820 --> 00:19:45.320
Stefan Bratanov: So, yeah, we're working towards, DevNet Zero.

33
00:19:45.500 --> 00:19:47.510
Stefan Bratanov: But, still not sure exactly.

34
00:19:48.120 --> 00:19:49.709
Stefan Bratanov: Of any timeline.

35
00:19:54.310 --> 00:19:55.360
stokes: Cool, thanks.

36
00:19:56.340 --> 00:19:58.720
stokes: Any other clients want to give an update?

37
00:20:10.610 --> 00:20:11.480
stokes: Okay.

38
00:20:11.990 --> 00:20:17.749
stokes: Barnabas, you put some notes here on specs. Do you want to say anything else about that?

39
00:20:20.020 --> 00:20:22.970
Barnabas: Yeah, so you basically,

40
00:20:23.150 --> 00:20:34.509
Barnabas: dial down the specs to be 1.7.0-alpha.1 for DevNet0, and most likely it's going to be Alpha 2 for DevNet1.

41
00:20:35.160 --> 00:20:46.019
Barnabas: I included the CSPAC PRs that are attached to each of these scopes, and hopefully we can discuss that.

42
00:20:46.170 --> 00:20:50.790
Barnabas: There's a couple of open PRs still, 4843.

43
00:20:58.590 --> 00:20:59.310
Barnabas: Duck.

44
00:21:00.760 --> 00:21:04.820
stokes: Yeah, I can grab them. It's 4843, and it looks like 4826.

45
00:21:05.740 --> 00:21:11.220
Barnabas: Yep, exactly. So the 4843, seems to be…

46
00:21:11.680 --> 00:21:18.940
Barnabas: pretty much good to go, and pretty much good to be merged in. And the other one is, really the questionable one.

47
00:21:21.220 --> 00:21:21.820
stokes: Correct.

48
00:21:22.350 --> 00:21:30.799
stokes: And yeah, I mean, the way that you have it here, those would be in DevNet1, so we have some time to resolve those, and then there's a solid target for DevNet 0.

49
00:21:32.250 --> 00:21:43.280
Barnabas: Right, but, yeah, it would be very good to… to have some timeline discussion, regarding EPBS, because it's been delaying for a very long time, and

50
00:21:43.690 --> 00:21:51.700
Barnabas: based on new inclined updates, it just doesn't seem like it's going anywhere. I'm hoping we can, like,

51
00:21:53.110 --> 00:21:56.519
Barnabas: We can discuss specific deadlines for DevNets.

52
00:21:57.510 --> 00:22:01.250
stokes: Yeah, I mean, I think we should get into it. One…

53
00:22:02.010 --> 00:22:04.970
stokes: Comment from Kini, just in terms of client updates.

54
00:22:05.560 --> 00:22:13.869
stokes: Yeah, Lighthouse is making good progress, no firm timing yet, but yeah, they're making good progress in terms of Lighthouse Network.

55
00:22:14.230 --> 00:22:15.300
stokes: So…

56
00:22:15.680 --> 00:22:23.609
stokes: Yeah, I mean, I think that is an important thing to get into here, is just the timing, so we can align on how we're thinking about things.

57
00:22:24.120 --> 00:22:27.040
stokes: you know, I think one place to start is…

58
00:22:27.340 --> 00:22:30.030
stokes: We had this meta of 2 forks per year.

59
00:22:30.370 --> 00:22:36.909
stokes: So, from where we are today, you know, I would be curious how clients think about this.

60
00:22:38.460 --> 00:22:41.050
stokes: a proposal I could just toss out there.

61
00:22:41.290 --> 00:22:49.329
stokes: you know, following that, timing of two forks a year would be Leinster Dam sometime in the summer, you know, between June…

62
00:22:49.590 --> 00:22:51.600
stokes: July, possibly even August.

63
00:22:52.540 --> 00:23:00.239
stokes: From there, you know, especially, I think, if we can agree to a time there, then we can work backwards and figure out where everything else needs to hit.

64
00:23:00.810 --> 00:23:06.000
stokes: So yeah, I'd be curious for people's thoughts on that.

65
00:23:07.010 --> 00:23:11.439
stokes: I think sticking to this would be important, again, just to keep,

66
00:23:11.800 --> 00:23:15.130
stokes: Is anything predictability and regularity high?

67
00:23:15.800 --> 00:23:21.789
stokes: And I do think if we're targeting the summer, then, yeah, you kind of go backwards from there.

68
00:23:22.420 --> 00:23:26.159
stokes: It would be something like May-ish for testnets.

69
00:23:26.430 --> 00:23:30.540
stokes: Meaning, DevNet development is done around April.

70
00:23:30.700 --> 00:23:35.040
stokes: Meaning, you know, the beginning of DevNets, where we are now, needs to start progressing.

71
00:23:35.560 --> 00:23:45.570
stokes: And, yeah, I mean, if we want to make it concrete, we could even go ahead and say, yeah, you know, we need DevNet Zero, say, in a month, and from there, I think things will kind of fall into place.

72
00:23:46.130 --> 00:23:49.940
stokes: But, yeah, I'd be curious, how people feel about this today.

73
00:24:06.820 --> 00:24:10.760
Barnabas: I think maybe it's not very clear what you're trying to communicate. Basically.

74
00:24:10.880 --> 00:24:18.759
Barnabas: It's suggesting that we could consider doing a EL-only fork in the summer, in case EPPS is,

75
00:24:19.260 --> 00:24:21.850
Barnabas: not able to… Shipping time.

76
00:24:22.350 --> 00:24:23.090
Barnabas: Is that correct?

77
00:24:23.090 --> 00:24:29.409
stokes: Yeah, well, this is an option on the table, which is why I want to kind of have this conversation, so…

78
00:24:29.730 --> 00:24:41.589
stokes: Yeah, like, if we want to stick to two forks a year, and it gets to the place that, you know, really any AP is not ready, then we could just basically leave it out. It, by default, goes to the next fork.

79
00:24:41.810 --> 00:24:43.309
stokes: And we proceed that way.

80
00:24:45.510 --> 00:24:55.189
stokes: And yeah, that could be the case here in Clemssterdam. Again, I think BALs and things have progressed quite a bit further along than EPBS, so if we stick to this mid-year fork.

81
00:24:55.610 --> 00:24:58.690
stokes: EPVS is not ready in time, that is an option on the table.

82
00:25:00.780 --> 00:25:01.650
stokes: Botus.

83
00:25:02.410 --> 00:25:17.749
Potuz: Yeah, so I can't give you any timelines for DevNets, nor… not even Kurtosis runs, but people are talking about an 100% increase on the size of the block because of BALs.

84
00:25:18.160 --> 00:25:24.430
Potuz: I don't know how people think about that… without EPBS?

85
00:25:31.200 --> 00:25:36.990
stokes: You're saying that you would have concerns without APBS, that it would be okay to make the blocks that big?

86
00:25:37.250 --> 00:25:47.319
Potuz: My node today gets the median block over 2 seconds into the slot. If we double the size of the block.

87
00:25:48.440 --> 00:25:53.600
Potuz: We still need to attest to it. Without a PBS, it sounds kind of crazy.

88
00:25:56.000 --> 00:25:57.860
stokes: And this is just from the access list?

89
00:25:58.130 --> 00:25:59.830
stokes: this double N you're talking about?

90
00:26:00.050 --> 00:26:05.390
Potuz: Yeah, as far as I know, they were talking about having a 100% increase on BALs.

91
00:26:05.690 --> 00:26:06.200
stokes: Yeah.

92
00:26:06.200 --> 00:26:18.189
Toni Wahrstätter: I mean, this is true, but to be realistic, right, 100% sounds a lot here, but we are talking about 70 to 80 kilobytes with today's gas limit. So this is not even a blob.

93
00:26:18.480 --> 00:26:23.389
Toni Wahrstätter: So I wouldn't… I wouldn't over-exaggerate it. Of course, on the EL side, data will be doubled.

94
00:26:24.010 --> 00:26:26.140
Toni Wahrstätter: But, if you put it…

95
00:26:26.470 --> 00:26:32.380
Toni Wahrstätter: Relative to the whole… to the total data throughput we already have. It's… It's negligible.

96
00:26:35.180 --> 00:26:36.400
stokes: Ontario, you have your hand up.

97
00:26:37.330 --> 00:26:49.970
Ansgar Dietrichs: Yeah, I mean, basically similar to what Tony just said, more just a bit general. Now, I really, really, really don't think we will ship an EL-only fork. I think that would be a really bad outcome.

98
00:26:49.970 --> 00:27:03.569
Ansgar Dietrichs: I'm very optimistic that, you know, we'll just hit the timelines on both sides. But yeah, because the question was raised, I think because we have this unusual flexibility this fall, because of the repricings, we can just make these things

99
00:27:03.570 --> 00:27:18.779
Ansgar Dietrichs: relative to each other, more or less expensive, data versus compute. And so, in this, like, just absolute, like, emergency outcome of having to ship a fork without the benefits, they're very important and very much looking forward to benefits of EPBS,

100
00:27:18.790 --> 00:27:29.209
Ansgar Dietrichs: we would be able to do so, and basically just, end up having to reprice things slightly differently. We would be prepared for that, but again, to me, this is, like, a very, like, just…

101
00:27:29.290 --> 00:27:34.150
Ansgar Dietrichs: Only emergency outcome, I don't think that's at all in the… And main path here.

102
00:27:36.550 --> 00:27:45.920
stokes: Yeah, I mean, I do think it would be preferable to keep things as scheduled. It is an option if it comes to that.

103
00:27:47.600 --> 00:27:51.960
stokes: Yeah, and so I think it's gonna be…

104
00:27:53.400 --> 00:27:57.380
stokes: Yeah, I think it'll be, like, tricky to make this a firm commitment today.

105
00:27:57.540 --> 00:28:02.920
stokes: At least going off, yeah, what Putin said, representing Prism.

106
00:28:03.160 --> 00:28:05.740
stokes: Kini here with Lighthouse, so…

107
00:28:05.950 --> 00:28:08.320
stokes: Yeah, at least from those comments, like…

108
00:28:08.720 --> 00:28:12.009
stokes: Possible, but yeah, they don't want to commit to this today.

109
00:28:12.500 --> 00:28:15.779
stokes: Any other clients have any input on this?

110
00:28:20.900 --> 00:28:31.870
saulius: I just wanted to note that I think we have a bit of illusion of two hard forks per year, because we did that last year.

111
00:28:32.030 --> 00:28:40.370
saulius: And we did that just because the PDAS was developed for a couple of years in parallel.

112
00:28:40.500 --> 00:28:48.509
saulius: And, we don't have such thing, now. We just started to, implement,

113
00:28:48.570 --> 00:29:00.720
saulius: EPBS, which is a really complex, thing, it touches so much in the client. So, yeah, I'm… I'm afraid that we…

114
00:29:01.430 --> 00:29:07.630
saulius: It's… for this year, it's just an illusion to have two hard forks per year.

115
00:29:08.560 --> 00:29:20.980
Parithosh Jayanthi: I think that's fair, though, because block-level access lists also got started developing around the same time, and they are mostly ready to hit 2 forks a year. Same with repricings.

116
00:29:21.580 --> 00:29:26.390
saulius: Yeah, but I'm on CL side. I'm talking about CL side.

117
00:29:28.360 --> 00:29:31.029
Parithosh Jayanthi: Well, that's more of a comment on scoping, right?

118
00:29:37.220 --> 00:29:42.639
stokes: Yeah, I mean, I'm not proposing this, but you could imagine we change the scope of EPBS so that it's…

119
00:29:43.090 --> 00:29:44.989
stokes: A smaller thing to ship faster.

120
00:29:46.550 --> 00:29:50.840
stokes: Yeah.

121
00:29:51.400 --> 00:29:54.809
stokes: Barnabas has a suggestion here on a timeline,

122
00:29:54.950 --> 00:29:58.390
stokes: Let's see… so yeah, the BAL DevNets progress.

123
00:29:59.240 --> 00:30:09.710
stokes: EPBS DevNet Zero, yeah, essentially a month from today, which then, a month after that, we'd get to the next DevNet and keep things moving.

124
00:30:10.380 --> 00:30:16.979
stokes: This is a nice timeline. Of course, it needs to be possible.

125
00:30:17.520 --> 00:30:23.069
stokes: And, you know, I think what I'd suggest… I'm sure, Barnabas, you want to add some context?

126
00:30:23.600 --> 00:30:37.540
Barnabas: Yeah, so I would really, really, suggest that, we should do, like, a harsh deadline for the end of February, the 20th of February, for at least shipping EPBS DevNet Zero.

127
00:30:37.540 --> 00:30:44.950
Barnabas: If we are unable to ship EPPS Definite Zero by the end of February, then I would consider pushing it to,

128
00:30:45.150 --> 00:30:55.010
Barnabas: the H-star fork, and basically doing a EL only and repricing changes, fork in…

129
00:30:55.120 --> 00:30:57.280
Barnabas: June, or maybe even sooner.

130
00:30:58.890 --> 00:31:02.329
Barnabas: And then you can still ship EPPS by the end of the year.

131
00:31:07.340 --> 00:31:07.960
stokes: Yeah.

132
00:31:08.110 --> 00:31:09.210
stokes: It's an option.

133
00:31:18.320 --> 00:31:20.189
stokes: Any responses to that?

134
00:31:24.280 --> 00:31:28.159
stokes: So, if not, I think in terms of today,

135
00:31:28.490 --> 00:31:38.899
stokes: Yeah, it does sound like, based on where we're at today, I would agree here, the post is saying, like, end of February, or at least, you know, not today, but with another sequence of calls.

136
00:31:39.140 --> 00:31:40.689
stokes: We'll have a clearer idea.

137
00:31:41.080 --> 00:31:47.489
stokes: I do think we should all have in mind, roughly, the schedule, again, just to keep things moving, so…

138
00:31:48.170 --> 00:31:54.539
stokes: what that means for today is, like, you know, do our best to get to DevNet Zero, towards the end of February.

139
00:31:55.400 --> 00:31:57.820
stokes: And, yeah, I think…

140
00:31:58.230 --> 00:32:05.200
stokes: Given where we're at today, we'll know a lot more in the future, and we can have more clarity at that point in time.

141
00:32:06.100 --> 00:32:19.320
stokes: And to be clear, there is this option that, you know, especially if we have a bunch of other things ready outside of EPBS, there would definitely be the option to explore

142
00:32:19.710 --> 00:32:22.439
stokes: I'm shipping, quote, an yaw-only fork.

143
00:32:23.420 --> 00:32:26.040
stokes: So… Let's keep that in mind.

144
00:32:31.760 --> 00:32:39.249
Parithosh Jayanthi: Are there any implementation blockers or spec topics that need to be sorted out sooner rather than later that would help?

145
00:32:51.600 --> 00:32:54.809
Potuz: Can you… can you specify what you're referring to, Pari?

146
00:32:56.240 --> 00:33:02.330
Parithosh Jayanthi: I was asking, do we have everything required for implementation, or is there still gonna be…

147
00:33:02.660 --> 00:33:06.199
Parithosh Jayanthi: something changing between now and DevNet Zero.

148
00:33:06.840 --> 00:33:10.880
Potuz: No, I think it's… Definite Zero is already, spec'd out.

149
00:33:11.120 --> 00:33:19.979
Potuz: And I think, finally, the spec is frozen in that sense, so we can actually now start… well, we are already coding, and we are already merging.

150
00:33:20.190 --> 00:33:23.549
Potuz: So, a couple weeks ago, we actually started coding for this.

151
00:33:25.500 --> 00:33:29.290
Parithosh Jayanthi: Perfect. Do you guys need anything from the testing team, or from PandaOps?

152
00:33:30.710 --> 00:33:36.429
Potuz: Not for now, but in a couple of weeks, we'll be asking to have, like, our justice runs, I guess.

153
00:33:39.240 --> 00:33:40.570
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, sounds good.

154
00:33:44.540 --> 00:33:46.330
stokes: It's blocking on the kurtosis?

155
00:33:47.140 --> 00:33:50.100
Potuz: Oh, there's no blocking, and we just need to code and merge.

156
00:33:54.690 --> 00:34:04.779
stokes: Okay, yeah. And even, yeah, just going off of the DevNet Zero spec, there's the consistent specs here with the release, and there's one extra PR, it looks like, so…

157
00:34:05.930 --> 00:34:13.429
stokes: That looks pretty straightforward. So, yeah, again, that's what I would say for today. Let's all try to keep this…

158
00:34:14.020 --> 00:34:22.079
stokes: next milestone in mind of about a month from now, towards the end of February, and… yeah, let's see how it goes.

159
00:34:23.969 --> 00:34:25.439
stokes: Does that sound good with everyone?

160
00:34:26.880 --> 00:34:27.780
stokes: Enrico?

161
00:34:29.370 --> 00:34:33.040
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Just, just a final, comment,

162
00:34:33.239 --> 00:34:40.699
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): unrelated to APPS, so I want to just take one minute to share

163
00:34:40.929 --> 00:34:45.319
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): a little description of what happened to Tegu Node's,

164
00:34:45.820 --> 00:34:55.690
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): two weeks ago, around January 13, so if we are at the end of the call, I just want to share these things, so…

165
00:34:57.260 --> 00:34:59.690
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Is this the good time? Is there anyone.

166
00:34:59.690 --> 00:35:00.830
stokes: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, go ahead.

167
00:35:00.830 --> 00:35:01.470
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Okay.

168
00:35:02.050 --> 00:35:11.809
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So, just a little, summarization of what happened. So, EEF run around E13.

169
00:35:12.080 --> 00:35:16.790
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): PM, UTC, a stress test on the mainnet, causing…

170
00:35:17.170 --> 00:35:21.120
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): blob usage to spike, like, 2.5x.

171
00:35:21.680 --> 00:35:27.660
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Consider the average of… compared to the average of the moment.

172
00:35:27.850 --> 00:35:35.850
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So, we have been reached by, several clients…

173
00:35:36.050 --> 00:35:44.449
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): saying that Google's falling off and, producing empty slot logs.

174
00:35:45.010 --> 00:35:54.630
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And we started a very long analysis, and we think we found some root causes of this. Essentially.

175
00:35:55.200 --> 00:36:14.749
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): This was happening only on some full custody nodes, not everyone, not every node. And the spike of blob usage caused, essentially columns to double, more than double in size, so overall data written to database doubled.

176
00:36:15.580 --> 00:36:17.690
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And, we…

177
00:36:17.840 --> 00:36:26.649
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): we hit some kind of threshold in the way we used LevelDB that was causing transaction rights to

178
00:36:26.890 --> 00:36:29.860
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Slow down a lot.

179
00:36:30.040 --> 00:36:36.139
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And this was causing a chain effect on our client, essentially.

180
00:36:36.880 --> 00:36:46.679
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Fully… filling up some queues on the database side, causing that availability to not being declared available.

181
00:36:46.910 --> 00:36:54.879
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Quick enough, even if we have already received the columns over the network, and so blocks 1 won't be…

182
00:36:55.070 --> 00:36:56.910
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): imported, and…

183
00:36:57.430 --> 00:37:09.170
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): all things off. So, we started… when we realized that LevelDB was the root cause, we started saying around, can you please switch to RoxDB if you're facing these problems?

184
00:37:09.190 --> 00:37:20.980
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): And we are working on several mitigations, and we're also moving to RoxDB as default database and from the next release.

185
00:37:22.220 --> 00:37:29.959
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): But, yeah, just sharing the updates on what happened. I don't know how many was aware of this.

186
00:37:31.020 --> 00:37:43.929
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So we are… This is a reason why also EPBS slow development was a little bit slowed down lately on our side. We were dealing with this analysis and issues.

187
00:37:47.300 --> 00:37:48.500
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): That's it.

188
00:37:51.640 --> 00:37:58.459
stokes: Okay, thanks. And, yeah, any takeaways? I mean, Barnabas in particular has a question.

189
00:37:58.880 --> 00:38:00.000
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Oh, yes.

190
00:38:00.000 --> 00:38:02.330
stokes: If we should wait with the blob testing?

191
00:38:06.430 --> 00:38:16.240
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): We are working on some, diff… some… some approaches to mitigate everything, so… We could…

192
00:38:16.410 --> 00:38:24.909
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Try to recreate the same problem, even if we synthetically recreated the same scenario.

193
00:38:25.320 --> 00:38:34.039
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Locally, by simulating a very slow transaction on database that actually triggered

194
00:38:34.490 --> 00:38:45.900
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): all the chain effect that we saw on customer nodes, so I think, like, we know what the problem is now, and it's pretty internal and low level on Teku.

195
00:38:46.220 --> 00:38:54.959
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So, we could run another spamming test again, but I would like to… maybe having also

196
00:38:55.060 --> 00:39:06.680
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): all the mitigations and improvements already in place, to also being able to compare those mitigations in parallel, and see that there was

197
00:39:07.320 --> 00:39:13.910
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): actually solved. So, maybe we can organize later, when everything is… is done.

198
00:39:24.310 --> 00:39:26.049
stokes: Okay, thanks for the update.

199
00:39:30.640 --> 00:39:32.030
stokes: Okay.

200
00:39:32.350 --> 00:39:35.529
stokes: Anything else on EPBS?

201
00:39:36.680 --> 00:39:41.270
stokes: Again, just to play that back, it sounds like we're in a good place with the DevNet Zero specs.

202
00:39:41.510 --> 00:39:49.380
stokes: Clients are busy implementing, and yeah, it would be good to see the DevNet as soon as possible.

203
00:39:49.940 --> 00:39:59.469
stokes: At this point, I do think we should kind of just take it call by call and see how things progress. We should have a rough deadline in our heads of about a month from now.

204
00:39:59.740 --> 00:40:03.890
stokes: And, yeah, we will navigate things as they go.

205
00:40:08.800 --> 00:40:09.630
stokes: Okay.

206
00:40:10.570 --> 00:40:20.290
stokes: Then, Tony had a quick shout-out on this PR, concerning the Engine API and BILs. Tony, would you like to say something?

207
00:40:21.860 --> 00:40:32.740
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, thanks, not really much to say about it, just as a heads up for CL clients that we changed something at the engine API previously. It required, like, two calls.

208
00:40:33.010 --> 00:40:39.829
Toni Wahrstätter: to the EO, When it comes to helping other peers sync, and this will now just need one call.

209
00:40:39.970 --> 00:40:43.840
Toni Wahrstätter: Because the block lab access list will just be attached.

210
00:40:44.110 --> 00:40:47.290
Toni Wahrstätter: To the, execution payload.

211
00:40:48.660 --> 00:40:54.049
Toni Wahrstätter: to the execution payload body. So it will be… it will have an execution payload body V2,

212
00:40:54.140 --> 00:41:10.219
Toni Wahrstätter: And yeah, just please, check it out. Previously, we only used Lodestar for the first Defnet, and for DEFNET2, I think the plan was to use multiple clients already, and different clients handle it differently, as far as I know, so…

213
00:41:10.390 --> 00:41:16.870
Toni Wahrstätter: Please have a look, and… those clients that are ready for DEFNET2, we can then already use them.

214
00:41:17.210 --> 00:41:18.029
Toni Wahrstätter: Thank you.

215
00:41:24.240 --> 00:41:30.380
stokes: Great. Yeah, and us would just have people review the PR.

216
00:41:32.430 --> 00:41:34.520
Toni Wahrstätter: Yeah, review it and implement it.

217
00:41:34.520 --> 00:41:36.160
stokes: Create… okay.

218
00:41:37.270 --> 00:41:38.040
stokes: Okay.

219
00:41:40.240 --> 00:41:42.950
stokes: So, yeah, everyone take a look.

220
00:41:43.170 --> 00:41:44.139
stokes: Add that?

221
00:41:46.080 --> 00:41:51.570
stokes: Anything else for Glamsterdam? I think that was all we had on the agenda.

222
00:41:58.210 --> 00:41:58.960
stokes: Okay.

223
00:41:59.850 --> 00:42:04.909
stokes: Next then would be Hegata, and again, yeah,

224
00:42:05.100 --> 00:42:07.529
stokes: Just to give a summary of where we're at there.

225
00:42:07.670 --> 00:42:13.059
stokes: So, we've started the headliner proposal process for this fork.

226
00:42:13.470 --> 00:42:21.350
stokes: So far, there's been a proposal on Ethan Magicians, at least a post for this, for Fossil.

227
00:42:21.590 --> 00:42:30.889
stokes: And I think a new one since last time would be Encryptum Impulse, which I think, depending on how they're doing it, is probably more of an EL thing.

228
00:42:31.370 --> 00:42:36.309
stokes: In any case, we have until February 4th.

229
00:42:36.450 --> 00:42:50.349
stokes: For proposals to be submitted, it would be nice if champions of these proposals come to some ACD by the 4th of February, and give, you know, a very quick sort of pitch or overview of the proposal.

230
00:42:50.970 --> 00:42:55.000
stokes: Yeah, then from there, we'll go to the headliner selection process.

231
00:42:55.680 --> 00:43:03.949
stokes: And I think that was all I wanted to say there. We still have some time before the next phase of that.

232
00:43:07.300 --> 00:43:11.390
stokes: And with that, I think this was all we needed to cover today.

233
00:43:11.600 --> 00:43:14.770
stokes: Is there anything else we should discuss?

234
00:43:29.540 --> 00:43:32.149
Barnabas: I might have something, so…

235
00:43:32.340 --> 00:43:37.089
Barnabas: could we get, maybe, every CL team to, have a…

236
00:43:37.710 --> 00:43:45.569
Barnabas: have a version for the Ball DevNets as well. I know that we currently have Lostar and Lighthouse only.

237
00:43:45.920 --> 00:43:48.769
Barnabas: And I think it would be a good,

238
00:43:49.540 --> 00:43:55.260
Barnabas: to… to be able to basically run all the sales, pitfalls as well.

239
00:43:57.820 --> 00:44:02.089
stokes: And concretely, this would be a slot non implementation, just so they can join the DevNet?

240
00:44:02.490 --> 00:44:05.429
Barnabas: That plus bolts. It should be fairly small.

241
00:44:05.430 --> 00:44:06.930
stokes: Oh, right, yeah, yeah, okay.

242
00:44:06.930 --> 00:44:07.720
Barnabas: Stuck out.

243
00:44:08.480 --> 00:44:13.540
Barnabas: Yeah, Prism… Prism is not working. There was a working branch that…

244
00:44:13.860 --> 00:44:23.309
Barnabas: might work for .NET0, but it no longer works, for sure. So it would be good to have a .NET2 spec ready for all the different CLs.

245
00:44:28.300 --> 00:44:34.410
Barnabas: It should be a one-day effort for most people, I think. It's not a huge lift.

246
00:44:41.270 --> 00:44:47.379
Barnabas: And then maybe later on, we can also iterate additional fields on top of that branch, and

247
00:44:48.050 --> 00:44:52.419
Barnabas: because we still have a few CL-only changes,

248
00:44:52.600 --> 00:44:58.799
Barnabas: If APVS is taking too long, then maybe you can include those CR changes on top of the ball.nets.

249
00:45:06.670 --> 00:45:12.079
stokes: Yeah, so that was… So you said, presume there might be an issue with the branch right now?

250
00:45:12.710 --> 00:45:17.139
stokes: And then we'll let Techu, Brandeen.

251
00:45:18.400 --> 00:45:22.900
stokes: Who else am I missing? I missed the first two you said that were already there. Nimbus.

252
00:45:22.900 --> 00:45:25.330
Barnabas: Nembos, Taku, and Grandin.

253
00:45:25.480 --> 00:45:28.540
Barnabas: It would be great if they also took, like.

254
00:45:34.710 --> 00:45:37.239
stokes: Okay. Some of them are on this call, so…

255
00:45:43.570 --> 00:45:45.339
stokes: Can we get an acknowledgement?

256
00:45:46.050 --> 00:45:48.640
stokes: Okay, we got a thumbs up, at least, from Svalius.

257
00:45:54.010 --> 00:45:54.870
stokes: Okay.

258
00:45:55.640 --> 00:46:03.570
stokes: Ari hasn't asked here about partial salt proofs, that would be worth talking about, if the relevant people are here.

259
00:46:06.460 --> 00:46:10.410
stokes: Is this mostly implementation and clients, Perry, or is there something else to talk about?

260
00:46:11.650 --> 00:46:19.729
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, an implementation status of plans, because as far as I knew, partial site pools is something we also plan on shipping this year, so…

261
00:46:20.420 --> 00:46:23.960
Parithosh Jayanthi: I think it makes sense to discuss where we are with that.

262
00:46:33.870 --> 00:46:35.360
stokes: Is any client looking at this?

263
00:46:37.220 --> 00:46:41.389
Barnabas: Yeah, so I was just checking if maybe Raul was on the call, but…

264
00:46:41.530 --> 00:46:50.580
Barnabas: I cannot seem to find him, so I can maybe give an update. We are launching a DevNet for the partial sales stuff,

265
00:46:50.920 --> 00:47:05.980
Barnabas: We launched it yesterday, but the clients are still implementing the features. We have a Lighthouse implementation and a Prism implementation. They're, like, half-baked solutions at this point. We're still missing some,

266
00:47:06.390 --> 00:47:13.409
Barnabas: Metrics, but it should be, getting close to interrupting.

267
00:47:13.550 --> 00:47:20.830
Barnabas: And we are waiting for a Tecmo and Lodestar implementation, and we haven't heard from IMBUS yet.

268
00:47:23.470 --> 00:47:25.070
Barnabas: But it's work in progress.

269
00:47:25.290 --> 00:47:32.880
Parithosh Jayanthi: And is the plan that as soon as someone has it merged, they ship it, or will this happen at a fork boundary, or EPO boundary, or something like that?

270
00:47:33.320 --> 00:47:52.599
Barnabas: This is still, under consideration, so we want to roll it out for DevNets, then, roll it out for testnets, and then after testnets, we can see if we have any other P2P issues, with clustering. If there's no issues, then, clients are free to roll it out at,

271
00:47:53.580 --> 00:47:56.800
Barnabas: Whenever they roll out their next, stable release, it's…

272
00:48:04.180 --> 00:48:08.830
stokes: Alright, Potis, your comment here was about… These partial salt proofs?

273
00:48:11.410 --> 00:48:19.090
Potuz: Yeah, we have… but Marco is pushing PRs, and also some internal members are just working on this, and Casey, I think, is also working on this.

274
00:48:20.890 --> 00:48:21.500
stokes: Okay.

275
00:48:24.200 --> 00:48:32.420
stokes: Yeah, in terms of moving forward here, it might be good to, like, point to some type of champion, and I think that's…

276
00:48:32.630 --> 00:48:35.810
stokes: Yeah, likely either Raul or Marco, so yeah.

277
00:48:36.410 --> 00:48:43.099
stokes: I can follow up with them and try to get them on a future call, and we can make sure we keep moving that forward as well.

278
00:48:47.530 --> 00:48:52.939
Barnabas: Yeah, like, we cannot ship BPO3 without it. That's pretty obvious, I think.

279
00:48:53.240 --> 00:48:58.610
Barnabas: So, we're gonna need to have every client implemented before we can ship PPS3.

280
00:49:02.670 --> 00:49:03.569
stokes: Makes sense.

281
00:49:08.670 --> 00:49:11.720
Barnabas: Could we also get an update, maybe, on 7688?

282
00:49:15.120 --> 00:49:17.069
stokes: This is the Stable Containers EIP.

283
00:49:17.290 --> 00:49:22.200
Barnabas: Yep, because most SSE libraries will have to update that.

284
00:49:22.350 --> 00:49:25.320
Barnabas: That might also be a significant effort.

285
00:49:26.520 --> 00:49:35.430
Etan (Nimbus): Yeah, so, tests are… ready in consensus backtest. Nimbus implementation is ready.

286
00:49:35.590 --> 00:49:39.949
Etan (Nimbus): From Lighthouse, I heard that they are ready, and Lodestar results are ready.

287
00:49:40.460 --> 00:49:50.269
Etan (Nimbus): Prism, Grandine, and Teco are aware, but they are still busy with the other stuff, from what I have heard from them.

288
00:49:55.440 --> 00:50:05.179
Barnabas: Right, is it fair to assume that the implementation of the SSD containers is… can be done parallel to EPBS, and it's completely orthogonal?

289
00:50:05.830 --> 00:50:14.170
Etan (Nimbus): It's a pure library change, it doesn't affect the consensus, client.

290
00:50:15.510 --> 00:50:16.469
Barnabas: Is this something weird.

291
00:50:16.470 --> 00:50:17.030
stokes: kind of…

292
00:50:17.540 --> 00:50:20.769
Barnabas: Didn't the… didn't the ERP touch some of the types, though?

293
00:50:21.930 --> 00:50:33.069
Etan (Nimbus): Yeah, I mean, the 7688 then applies the library changes to the types, but the library changes itself can be developed in parallel.

294
00:50:34.390 --> 00:50:35.370
stokes: Right. Okay.

295
00:50:35.370 --> 00:50:40.510
Etan (Nimbus): It's just like an annotation that you have to put on the type, and then it hashes the new way.

296
00:50:43.340 --> 00:50:44.840
stokes: Potus, your hands up.

297
00:50:45.050 --> 00:50:50.319
Potuz: Yeah, so, it's true that, we can, after we…

298
00:50:50.680 --> 00:51:07.120
Potuz: added all the structures, we can just change the ZZ structures on the states. The only worry that I have is if it will affect our in-memory structure for the tree that we need to keep, because it changes how we hash things.

299
00:51:07.250 --> 00:51:18.850
Potuz: I've been told that this is not so much of a change, but I still… I mean, bugs on the rehashing on the tree are always subtle to debug, so that'll be my only fear on this EIP.

300
00:51:21.970 --> 00:51:27.450
stokes: Yeah, I mean, if we want to make progress here, it'd be worth someone who's not working, say, on EPBS to…

301
00:51:27.630 --> 00:51:38.809
stokes: de-risk that point, POTUS, so someone who can move ahead about implementation, and yeah, you know, even just a little prototype, showing that that's not an issue would be useful.

302
00:51:39.680 --> 00:51:48.799
stokes: I do think more generally, I'd rather us focus on EPPS and getting that to a good place, before the other CFI DIPs.

303
00:51:59.220 --> 00:52:01.430
stokes: It is good to get a status update on this, though.

304
00:52:05.280 --> 00:52:08.680
Barnabas: Anyone has looked into any other CL VIPs, by the way?

305
00:52:09.900 --> 00:52:11.690
Barnabas: Because we still have a few more?

306
00:52:15.190 --> 00:52:18.080
Barnabas: In terms of, like, implementation difficulties, or…

307
00:52:18.080 --> 00:52:22.620
stokes: Yeah, I would guess not, but… I'd be keen to hear.

308
00:52:38.660 --> 00:52:40.000
stokes: Okay, we gotta know.

309
00:52:41.250 --> 00:52:47.709
stokes: From Teku, which is understandable. I imagine everyone's just very focused on EPBS at the moment.

310
00:53:01.450 --> 00:53:02.240
stokes: Okay.

311
00:53:03.420 --> 00:53:04.510
stokes: Anything else?

312
00:53:05.670 --> 00:53:07.820
stokes: Otherwise, we'll go ahead and wrap up for the day.

313
00:53:15.610 --> 00:53:19.959
stokes: Okay, and thanks, everyone. I'll see you next time. Goodbye.

314
00:53:20.410 --> 00:53:21.400
Potuz: Mobile.

315
00:53:23.150 --> 00:53:24.010
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Bye.

316
00:53:24.010 --> 00:53:24.680
Justin Traglia: Sorry, everyone.

317
00:53:25.070 --> 00:53:28.200
Justin Florentine (Besu): Also, plus encrypted mempools is gonna be fire.

318
00:53:31.200 --> 00:53:32.200
Toni Wahrstätter: Bye bye.

319
00:53:34.350 --> 00:53:35.480
Ansgar Dietrichs: Very important.

