00:04:48	potuz:	GM
00:04:51	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:05:02	stokes:	gm
00:05:03	Sam Jernigan:	gm
00:05:09	Antoine James:	gm
00:05:12	DA | Flashbots:	gm
00:05:20	potuz:	Replying to "Gm"

I got a PR for you later today, not so much of a G for your M :)
00:05:29	spencer-tb:	Does everyone else’s mic unmute when they join?
00:05:32	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I got a PR for you l..." with 😅
00:05:36	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Does everyone else’s..." with 👍
00:05:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "Does everyone else’s..."

as it should be
00:05:41	potuz:	Reacted to "Does everyone else’s..." with 👍
00:05:48	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Gm"

Haha, oh gosh. Looking forward to it!
00:05:58	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "as it should be" with 😿
00:06:04	nixo:	lol who’s the emoji troll in R&D who picked E instead of C
00:06:14	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "lol who’s the emoji ..." with 😂
00:06:15	stokes:	Replying to "lol who’s the emoji ..."

I think you can’t double show C
00:06:18	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "lol who’s the emoji ..." with 😂
00:06:27	nixo:	Replying to "lol who’s the emoji ..."

oof
00:06:39	Barnabas:	Replying to "lol who’s the emoji ..."

I just looked at today’s topics, and thought its gonna be more of an E than a C lol
00:06:52	Barnabas:	Replying to "lol who’s the emoji ..."

hijacked by execution clients
00:07:05	nixo:	Reacted to "I just looked at tod..." with 😆
00:07:08	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "lol who’s the emoji ..." with 😂
00:07:10	stokes:	Replying to "lol who’s the emoji ..."

They merge the closer we get to shipping
00:07:19	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "hijacked by executio..." with 😂
00:07:40	potuz:	Replying to "lol who’s the emoji ..."

Tim was getting the shivers
00:07:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	gm gm
00:07:47	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1598
00:07:50	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Tim was getting the ..." with 😂
00:07:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with 🔥
00:07:54	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with 🔥
00:08:02	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "https://github.com/e..." with 🔥
00:08:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "gm gm"

I decided to hand control back to Alex.
For now.
00:08:26	stokes:	Replying to "gm gm"

Thank you
00:08:33	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I decided to hand co..." with 😂
00:09:02	potuz:	Unfortunately Prysm will have it in the next release
00:09:07	Sean:	lh just released 7.1 with 45 million default
00:09:10	Barnabas:	Reacted to "lh just released 7.1..." with 🔥
00:09:13	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "lh just released 7.1..." with 🔥
00:09:17	Lion dapplion:	Hello beautiful people
00:09:23	terence:	prysm should have a release by end of the next week
00:09:24	Dustin:	Nimbus is putting out a 45M release imminently
00:09:29	Barnabas:	Replying to "Hello beautiful peop..."

this guy still uses internet explorer
00:09:42	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "this guy still uses ..." with 😎
00:09:46	potuz:	Reacted to "this guy still uses ..." with 😁
00:09:47	Lion dapplion:	Reacted to "this guy still uses ..." with 😎
00:09:56	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "this guy still uses ..." with 😁
00:09:57	Phil Ngo:	Lodestar is testing next release now with 45M bump
00:09:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "this guy still uses ..." with 😎
00:10:13	Lion dapplion:	Replying to "Hello beautiful peop..."

I use explorers of the internet
00:11:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Hello beautiful peop..." with ❤️
00:11:35	Raúl Kripalani:	interesting, let me know if you need help debugging that
00:12:05	Barnabas:	teku had some OOM issues
00:12:20	Mehdi Aouadi:	Teku a release by next week with 45M
00:13:02	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "interesting, let me ..." with 🙏
00:13:16	Dustin:	https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth2/releases/tag/v25.7.0 is 45M by default
00:13:36	MatthewKeil:	Replying to "Hello beautiful peop..." 

 Hah.... Dora....
00:13:41	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "https://github.com/s..." with 🔥
00:13:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "https://github.com/s..." with 🔥
00:13:59	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-devnet-3
00:14:01	nixo:	Reacted to "https://github.com/s..." with 🔥
00:14:11	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://github.com/s..." with 🔥
00:14:23	nixo:	Replying to "https://github.com/s..."

dang, you weren’t kidding by “imminent” ha
00:14:26	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1598#issuecomment-3057506599
00:15:00	Barnabas:	its in the spec sheet, so its hard confirm lol
00:15:07	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "its in the spec shee..." with 👍
00:15:09	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "its in the spec shee..." with 😆
00:15:10	Barnabas:	we just waiting on more approvals
00:15:40	Ben Adams:	Replying to "we just waiting on m..."

you are giving me mixed messages 😅
00:16:01	stokes:	Replying to "we just waiting on m..."

Approvals here are just process
00:16:08	stokes:	Replying to "we just waiting on m..."

Spec sheet is source of truth
00:16:41	Barnabas:	Replying to "we just waiting on m..."

While at it, may we ask some more people to approve the open PRs?
00:16:53	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Spec sheet is source..." with 🔥
00:16:57	Mikhail Kalinin:	how V3 is supposed to be tested without CL using it?
00:17:01	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Spec sheet is source..." with 🔥
00:17:38	stokes:	Replying to "how V3 is supposed t..."

We can still test it
00:17:42	stokes:	Replying to "how V3 is supposed t..."

Regardless of hard fork schedule
00:17:50	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "While at it, may we ..." with ➕
00:19:07	Roman:	can we just add bool flag to v2?
00:19:08	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "how V3 is supposed t..."

my only concern would be that V3 testing can delay Fusaka but won’t be used until some time after Fusaka
00:20:09	Raúl Kripalani:	Replying to "can we just add bool..."

that was the original proposal, but it was rejected
00:20:19	Marius van der Wijden:	Geth is just build like that 💪
00:20:24	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Geth is just build l..." with ❤️
00:20:26	Raúl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Geth is just build l..." with ❤️
00:20:28	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "Geth is just build l..." with ❤️
00:20:28	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Geth is just build l..." with ❤️
00:21:08	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Geth is just build l..." with ❤️
00:21:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Also I think the “no other devnet” mainly means the spec shouldn’t change, wed still have more devnets - e.g a really large over 1k node network
00:21:15	Raúl Kripalani:	Replying to "can we just add bool..."

for reference: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/669
00:21:22	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Also I think the “no..." with 👍
00:21:28	Dustin:	v3 is a spec change
00:21:28	Roman:	Replying to "can we just add bool..."

_sigh_
00:21:57	Dustin:	a bool flag is a spec change too
00:22:39	Dustin:	exchangecapability is still fundamentally broken because of TOCTOU
00:22:58	Dustin:	ELs != endpoint addresses
00:23:13	Mikhail Kalinin:	don’t we need to test V3 in a devnet?
00:23:48	Barnabas:	how much overhead is this on the CL side?
00:23:48	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "don’t we need to tes..." 

 Not really, its a soft fork that we can do later
00:23:55	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "Not really, its a so..." with 👍
00:24:00	Barnabas:	its clearly a tiny change on the EL side
00:24:07	Raúl Kripalani:	we can test it directly (without the CL calling it)
00:24:14	FLCL:	it's simpler to update els later. Than maintain another endpoint
00:25:12	Raúl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Not really, its a so..." with 👍
00:25:46	Barnabas:	if this is independent of fusaka, then why do we care now?
00:25:58	stokes:	Replying to "if this is independe..."

We want to ship v3 in fusaka
00:26:07	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "We want to ship v3 i..." with 👍
00:26:07	Raúl Kripalani:	yeah, +1 to Marius. the engine API supports ex-fork changes, but we don't have a process to discuss/introduce those that's not aligned with forks
00:26:25	Raúl Kripalani:	that's why we're wanting to align it to Osaka
00:28:16	FLCL:	can we just rollback to partial responses
00:28:31	Roman:	no
00:28:39	Roman:	we have full responses right now
00:28:43	Roman:	in v2
00:29:06	Roman:	as of devnet 2
00:29:15	Mikhail Kalinin:	Making CL using V3 will require testing anyway, I see the point on that we may do it without a hard fork, but it will required coordination efforts anyway
00:30:18	Barnabas:	i don’t get why we need this before fusaka, if we can just roll it out in between forks anyway? 

Without proper testing how are we planning to roll this out between fulu and glamsterdam?
00:30:32	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "i don’t get why we n..." with 👍
00:30:44	Dustin:	except we can't really "rely" on anything not tested
00:30:47	Dustin:	it doesn't exist
00:30:55	Dustin:	in what devnet
00:31:06	Dustin:	barnabus says nothing after devnet-3
00:31:36	J Sunnyside Labs:	We can perhaps separately test it on our devnets
00:31:36	Dustin:	last words: "there's nothing to be tested there"
00:32:06	Mikhail Kalinin:	But we will have to test the CL side of the logic that is related to V3
00:32:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "But we will have to ..." 

 Why?
00:32:37	kasey:	I the main testing concern is that we need to be certain all CLs are resilient to nil values in responses. It would be bad if there was a bug with nil values in the response in a CL; EL upgrades to start using them; CL breaks.
00:32:38	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "But we will have to ..." 

 Its important that all els have it by the fork
00:32:47	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/builder-specs/pull/123
00:32:52	Barnabas:	Could more CL devs please speak up
00:33:00	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "But we will have to ..." 

 The cl testing will need to happen by the cell level messaging rollout
00:34:29	Barnabas:	sendit
00:35:10	terence:	when can we test it?
00:36:11	Barnabas:	we plan to roll out mev workflow for devnet 2
00:37:29	stokes:	https://blog.sigmaprime.io/shipping-peerdas.html
00:38:35	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "But we will have to ..."

I agree on the EL side, but CLs won’t use V3 in Fusaka thus we need to test CLs with support of V3 after Fusaka. Probably we can do a devnet after Fusaka to test this CL change
00:39:12	Justin Traglia:	I like the schedule 👍
00:39:25	Parithosh Jayanthi:	We need at least a non finality network and a really large network to that, data from that would be useful for deciding BPO1 and BPO2
00:39:52	Barnabas:	we still missing so many optimiziations for forward sync on the CL side…
00:39:53	Raúl Kripalani:	Reacted to "We need at least a n..." with 👍
00:40:05	Barnabas:	during non finality we were syncing about 0.5slots/s
00:40:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "during non finality ..." with 👍🏽
00:40:11	Barnabas:	thats deadly
00:40:16	Manu:	Reacted to "we still missing so ..." with 👍
00:40:18	Manu:	Reacted to "during non finality ..." with 👍🏽
00:40:39	Manu:	We need also “perfect peerdas” devnet
00:40:49	Manu:	And be sure every clients are able to sync
00:40:54	Barnabas:	Replying to "We need also “perfec..."

yup.
00:40:55	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "We need also “perfec..." with 👍🏼
00:40:59	Dustin:	Reacted to "We need also “per..." with 👍🏼
00:41:02	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We need also “perfec..." with 👍🏼
00:41:41	kasey:	I don’t understand why we wouldn’t use the BPO for the blob increase (even if it’s very shortly after fusaka).
00:41:52	stokes:	Replying to "I don’t understand w..."

We would
00:42:02	kasey:	Reacted to "We would" with 👍
00:42:22	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "I don’t understand w..."

Yup, fusaka - no change. BPO1 minor change, BPO2 moderate change. Then we can decide how agressive the other BPOs should be.
00:42:31	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Yup, fusaka - no cha..." with 👍
00:42:42	Barnabas:	Replying to "I don’t understand w..."

bundle BPO1 and BPO2 in fusaka makes sense
00:42:51	kasey:	Replying to "I don’t understand w..."

That has been the plan for a while I thought I heard Alex say something different, thanks for clarifying.
00:42:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "That has been the pl..." with 👍🏽
00:43:01	Barnabas:	Reacted to "That has been the pl..." with 👍🏽
00:44:00	Barnabas:	Replying to "I don’t understand w..."

finger in the air
00:44:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I personally like the 2 BPOs bundled with Fusaka option:
Fusaka itself without any thoughput bump, just switch to peerdas
BPO 1 shortly after (1 week): small bump (8/12)
BPO 2 1-2 months after: moderate increase (16/24)

further BPOs after that separately released
00:44:35	kasey:	Reacted to "I personally like th..." with 👍
00:44:35	potuz:	+1 Ansgar
00:44:37	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I personally like th..." with 👍
00:44:49	Marius van der Wijden:	Do we have complex normal transactions in the sunnyside testnets already? So we have additional load on other parts of the system?
00:45:00	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "+1 Ansgar" with ❤️
00:45:22	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I personally like th..." with 👍
00:46:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Just update from the ACDE side:

We decided to bump the headliner choice deadline significantly

wait until devnet-3 is live
then 2 ACDEs to decide headliners
00:46:29	nixo:	Reacted to "Just update from the..." with 👍
00:46:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Just update from the..."

so probably decision still 5 weeks out, maybe 7 (if devnet-3 takes longer)
00:46:48	J Sunnyside Labs:	Replying to "Do we have complex n..."

Thanks for pointing this out. We didn’t to put complex normal txs devnets this time. We will soon enable this in the next rounds
00:46:58	ethDreamer (Mark):	Note lighthouse team is not fully decided yet as not everyone has had the time to be across the discussion
00:47:20	Lion dapplion:	Replying to "Note lighthouse team..."

I currently disagree with the lighthouse glamsterdam post
00:47:46	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1598#issuecomment-3055296963
00:48:39	stokes:	https://forkcast.org/upgrade/glamsterdam#headliner-proposals
00:48:40	Trent:	Can you link?
00:48:56	Mario Havel:	Reacted to "https://forkcast.o..." with 🔥
00:49:11	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Note lighthouse team..."

https://blog.sigmaprime.io/glamsterdam-headliner.html
00:49:12	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "https://forkcast.org..."

for an overview of all of them, scroll up.

or: https://forkcast.org/upgrade/glamsterdam#overview
00:50:53	Marius van der Wijden:	I don't think we should do aa
00:50:56	Barnabas:	I think client teams should state their preference
00:50:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we are also not fully certain about single headliner yet, right? some people want to have FOCIL combined with ePBS
00:51:02	thomasthiery:	Just one thing I wanted to mention: If we can only chose 1 headliner per fork, there is a risk FOCIL might not be included at all (because ePBS + FOCIL or Shorter slots + FOCIL would be too much)
00:51:11	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "we are also not full..." with ➕
00:51:13	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "I don't think we sho..."

Available Attestation, right?
00:51:15	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we are also not full..." with ➕
00:51:17	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "we are also not full..." with ➕
00:51:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I don't think we sho..."

seems like the most relevant DFI candidate
00:51:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I don't think we sho..." 

 Yes
00:51:26	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I don't think we sho..."

at least as headliner
00:51:30	NC:	Are all these proposal eips cfi’ed?
00:51:31	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "I don't think we sho..."

I also agree, delete
00:51:50	Sean:	Reacted to "we are also not fu..." with ➕
00:52:09	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

In all of Ethereum’s history, we’ve never pulled this off. Maybe this time will be different, but we should have a very strong reason why we think so.
00:52:11	Trent:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

Is this a serious consideration?
00:52:15	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

It would be nice to not repeat PectrA/B
00:52:21	Trent:	Reacted to "In all of Ethereum’s..." with ☝️
00:52:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

I am personally rather skeptical of it as well, just wanted to flag that that's a conversation that is happening
00:52:36	Tim Beiko:	We want to CFI one headliner (per layer, max)
00:52:44	Barnabé Monnot:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

And double headliners EL/CL? eg 7886 + 7782
00:52:46	Lion dapplion:	My take: do shorter slots + FOCIL, and hold on ePBS for later
00:52:59	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "we are also not full..."

i think it is ambitious, but FOCIL can be looked at as the EL headliner.
00:53:06	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

I think we should do slot restructuring prior to reducing slot times
00:53:08	Barnabas:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

Glamsterdam / Glamsterdbm
00:53:15	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

I think EL + CL headliners can work if they are fairly decoupled.
00:53:37	Justin Florentine (Besu):	ePBS and FOCIL are definitely coupled
00:53:45	Ben Adams:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

would mean 2 forks for a user impact
00:53:49	Toni Wahrstaetter:	For the slot restructuring (DE, ePBS) we need EL <> CL coordination.
Feels like scaling through restructuring is a priority right now, so do 6s slot or ePBS on the CL makes sense.
00:53:53	Ansgar Dietrichs:	proposed theme from my side is L1 scaling
00:53:54	Kolby ML:	Shorter slots or Shorter finality like 3SF would have the biggest impact for users of ethereum. A massive UX improvement
00:54:13	nixo:	i don’t want to slow things down, but it doesn’t seem like the best approach to suddenly DFI a proposal with little warning when the EIP champion isn’t on the call
00:54:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "proposed theme from ..."

main CL side headliner for that would be ePBS / delayed execution
00:54:27	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "i don’t want to slow..." with ➕
00:54:29	Francesco:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

@Justin Florentine (Besu) so much of FOCIL is in the CL
00:54:36	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "For the slot restruc..."

ePBS doesn’t need EL modifications though?
00:54:38	Raúl Kripalani:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

i think delayed execution makes sense after shorter slots (otherwise we're strictly increasing UX latency)
00:54:39	Justin Florentine (Besu):	censorship resistance and mev mitigation
00:54:39	thomasthiery:	Wrote a note on ePBS and FOCIL compatibility https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/epbs-focil-compatibility/24777
00:54:51	Dankrad Feist:	I think it is hard to separate the theme from concrete proposal
00:55:07	Barnabé Monnot:	Choosing a theme is a red herring imo. Even https://blog.sigmaprime.io/glamsterdam-headliner.html  recognises that the greedy approach should be 7782, but then argues against doing that
00:55:14	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Reacted to "proposed theme from ..." with ➕
00:55:18	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "we are also not full..."

yes, i admit i have to squint a bit to look at FOCIL as an EL feature, it's almost entirely around block building
00:55:23	Barnabé Monnot:	Reacted to "I think it is hard t..." with 👍
00:55:27	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "Wrote a note on ePBS..." with ❤️
00:55:40	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..." 

 also cutting the slack in the slot first will focus minds on what is important when restructuring witb epbs or DE
00:55:46	potuz:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

it's a lot about the CL
00:55:54	Barnabé Monnot:	Reacted to "i think delayed exec..." with 💯
00:56:06	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..." 

 I think we are likely to make suboptimal decisions when we restructure while there is lots of slack in the slot
00:56:15	Dankrad Feist:	Reacted to i think delayed exec... with "💯"
00:56:20	Francesco:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

@Raúl Kripalani  Delayed execution by itself doesn’t increase latency, except for light clients
00:56:42	Barnabé Monnot:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

@Francesco it does if you payload commit and reveal later
00:56:50	Phil Ngo:	It probably makes sense on this call to forewarn people that decisions will be made on the Glamsterdam headliner within the next 2 weeks as sort of a “warning” for the champions to show up and defend their EIPs. Gives everyone the opportunity to prepare (even async on EthMagicians) for a conversation like this.
00:56:50	Dankrad Feist:	Reacted to Choosing a theme is ... with "👍"
00:56:52	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "i think delayed exec..." with 💯
00:57:07	potuz:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

not if the reveal is set at 4 seconds ant he commit at 2
00:57:09	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "It probably makes se..." with ➕
00:57:40	potuz:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

and we do slot auctions :)
00:57:41	Barnabé Monnot:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

@potuz that’s 2 seconds more! quite a lot imo
00:57:55	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

focus minds on what is important when restructuring witb epbs or DE

I think we’re pretty focused on this already in the debate with ePBS vs DE
00:57:59	nixo:	Reacted to "It probably makes se..." with ➕
00:58:02	Barnabé Monnot:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

Slot auctions improve this but have other issues ofc
00:58:27	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "It probably makes se..." with ➕
00:58:37	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

@Barnabé Monnot but commit and reveal later doesn't work under delayed exec (7886). there's no block payload separation.
00:58:43	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

ePBS w/ PTC is arguably better for CR than FOCIL. Being able to pick your builder can give CR for both public and private transactions; instead of just public.
00:58:44	Barnabas:	Could CL teams please prep a statement like LH did about preferences ?
00:58:48	NC:	Reacted to "It probably makes se…" with ➕
00:58:51	Barnabas:	so we don’t keep going in circles?
00:59:00	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "Could CL teams pleas..." with ➕
00:59:05	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "It probably makes se..." with ➕
00:59:10	potuz:	Reacted to "ePBS w/ PTC is argua..." with 👍
00:59:12	Barnabé Monnot:	Replying to "My take: do shorter ..."

@Toni Wahrstaetter in the current 7886 version yeah, but it was proposed to have a commitment to the beacon header to avoid timing games even in 7886
00:59:16	Evan Chipman | t1:	Reacted to "Could CL teams pleas..." with ➕
00:59:22	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Could CL teams pleas..." with ➕
00:59:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

how should we best gather input from non-client stakeholders? both regular acd participants like pandaops / researchers, and non-acd Ethereum stakeholders?
00:59:41	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Could CL teams pleas..." with ➕
00:59:44	Lion dapplion:	Even internal lighthouse opinion has not converged yet
00:59:49	Anders Elowsson:	I’ll post some analysis of blob/gas throughput in DE and ePBS in the context of shorter slot times over the weekend. It may be helpful to the discussion as well.
00:59:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

How do we get coherence tho?
00:59:52	Toni Wahrstaetter:	Replying to "we are also not full..."

@DA | Flashbots interesting argument!
00:59:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

More discussion?
00:59:56	Trent:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

Need to balance dissent in team perspectives tho
00:59:58	Francesco:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

Everyone writes a blog post
01:00:02	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "we are also not full..."

ePBS is entirely CL
01:00:08	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Could CL teams pleas..." with ➕
01:00:11	potuz:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

Already had Flashbots, Lido and preconfirmation teams writing about ePBS
01:00:21	Raúl Kripalani:	how are we factoring in stakeholder input and how can we gauge the strength of their preference?
01:00:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I’d be curious whether anyone would want to do FOCIL as the only CL headliner.
01:00:43	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

Idk if flashbots will put out a whole post on epbs. But at least a short opinion on the upgrades.
01:00:45	Barnabas:	we should unmute everyone’s mic
01:00:50	nixo:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:51	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:51	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:51	Raúl Kripalani:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:52	Trent:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😁
01:00:52	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:53	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:55	thomasthiery:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:56	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:56	Mehdi Aouadi:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:56	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:00:57	felipe:	Reacted to "we should unmute e..." with 😂
01:00:57	pk910:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😁
01:00:58	pk910:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:01:00	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:01:00	Evan Chipman | t1:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:01:00	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😁
01:01:01	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:01:03	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 💯
01:01:03	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 😂
01:01:04	Lion dapplion:	Get stokes to play music while we continue in the chat
01:01:05	Trent:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

This would be good! Do it
01:01:07	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to we should unmute eve... with "😂"
01:01:16	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Happy to play sth
01:01:18	Tim Beiko:	On the EL, we said the July 31 and Aug 14 calls would be for headliner confirmations
01:01:24	Sean:	Reacted to "we should unmute e..." with 😂
01:01:24	Sean:	Reacted to "we should unmute e..." with 😁
01:01:25	Sean:	Reacted to "we should unmute e..." with 💯
01:01:25	Tim Beiko:	Assuming no major issues
01:01:32	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "Could CL teams pleas..."

Fwiw we have no serious concerns about any of the headliners.
01:01:39	Evan Chipman | t1:	Reacted to "we should unmute eve..." with 💯
01:02:02	Marius van der Wijden:	https://youtu.be/0Wi8Fv0AJA4?si=qWKQmIcNvt8WrHf9
01:02:27	Raúl Kripalani:	Replying to "https://youtu.be/0Wi..."

oh great, i didn't get rickrolled
01:02:35	Barnabé Monnot:	Reacted to "oh great, i didn't g..." with 🤝
01:02:35	Caspar Schwarz-Schilling:	Reacted to "oh great, i didn't g..." with 😁
01:02:44	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "oh great, i didn't g..." with 🤝
01:02:52	stokes:	Replying to "how are we factoring..."

We should include it
01:03:07	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "https://youtu.be/0Wi..." with 😇
01:03:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "oh great, i didn't g..." with 😁
01:03:29	Raúl Kripalani:	there are useful considerations on https://forkcast.org/, but no measurable signal intensity
01:03:36	Barnabas:	next acde? Nothing else to discuss anyways lol
01:03:40	Raúl Kripalani:	Replying to "how are we factoring..."

(so hard to weigh preferences)
01:03:49	Cayman Nava:	For lodestar we're currently thinking about headliners ePBS (on the CL side) and Pureth (on the EL side). Will write up a blogpost with more rationale.
01:03:58	Barnabas:	Reacted to "For lodestar we're c..." with 🔥
01:04:01	Ansgar Dietrichs:	doesn’t have to be formal, you all just try to find some opportunities in the next few weeks to talk to your favorite Ethereum stakeholders about their views
01:04:05	potuz:	Reacted to "For lodestar we're c..." with 🔥
01:04:26	potuz:	Prysm seems aligned on ePBS, except perhaps Preston :)
01:04:27	NC:	Reacted to "For lodestar we're c…" with 👍
01:04:27	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "For lodestar we're c..." with 🔥
01:04:36	Ansgar Dietrichs:	what does “schedule stakeholder meeting” mean, who would we invite?
01:05:03	potuz:	Stakers, searchers, users, MEV pipeline players, builders, application developers
01:05:17	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "how are we factoring..."

Can we choose a venue to aggregate opinions? Maybe just a thread on ethmagicians?
01:05:22	Raúl Kripalani:	can we do an async (written) call for comments from stakeholders, like we're doing with clients?
01:05:27	potuz:	I can think of big unions at least: Stakers union, Lido, RocketPool, Flashbots, Titan, Beaver...
01:05:32	Barnabas:	just keep the call going till its all discussed lol
01:05:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Stakers, searchers, ..."

right, but those are not the primary people to talk to about shorter slots
01:05:57	Raúl Kripalani:	Reacted to "just keep the call g..." with 😆
01:06:06	Francesco:	Replying to "just keep the call g..."

“Let’s go ahead and wrap up… Unless 👀”
01:06:15	potuz:	Replying to "Stakers, searchers, ..."

applications developers and MEV pipeline players are the ones driving it :)
01:06:16	stokes:	Replying to "just keep the call g..."

😆
01:06:21	potuz:	Replying to "Stakers, searchers, ..."

surely they have something to talk about it
01:06:21	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "For lodestar we're c..." with 🔥
01:06:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I can think of big u..."

I think we have focused too much on the infrastructure side in the past, we should bias to listening more to non-infrastructure people
