00:05:10	FLCL:	gm
00:05:16	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:05:20	spencer-tb:	Gm!!
00:05:20	Trent:	Good morning testers
00:07:09	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1603
00:07:38	Marius:	43??? Time flies
00:07:45	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "43??? Time flies" with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "43??? Time flies" with ğŸ˜‚
00:08:43	danceratopz:	when you're having fun, Marius.
00:08:56	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "when you're having f..." with ğŸ™Œ
00:10:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Sync test repo: https://github.com/ethpandaops/kurtosis-sync-test/actions/runs/16106333838 

Sync test over non-finality period: https://github.com/ethpandaops/kurtosis-sync-test/actions/runs/16080134128
00:11:32	Barnabas:	we could plan a scheduled non finality for sometime this week.
00:11:36	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we could plan a sche..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:11:37	Manu:	Reacted to "we could plan a sche..." with ğŸ‘
00:11:37	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we could plan a sche..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:14:46	Barnabas:	Iâ€™m asking once again, how is backfill impl going?
00:15:00	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Iâ€™m asking once agai..." with ğŸ”¥
00:15:21	Manu:	Prysm: Still in progress
00:15:53	Will Corcoran:	Reacted to "9zkysm.gif" with ğŸ¤£
00:15:53	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "9zkysm.gif" with ğŸ˜‚
00:15:55	Barnabas:	Reacted to "9zkysm.gif" with ğŸ¤£
00:15:56	J Sunnyside Labs:	Reacted to "9zkysm.gif" with ğŸ¤£
00:16:01	yiannisbot:	Reacted to "9zkysm.gif" with ğŸ¤£
00:16:24	pawan:	Replying to "Iâ€™m asking once agai..."

Same for lighthouse
00:16:34	pawan:	Reacted to "9zkysm.gif" with ğŸ¤£
00:17:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Are there any backfill blockers or is it mainly time?
00:17:07	Francesco:	Backfill not being implemented shouldnâ€™t cause the problem though, right? If earliest_available_slot is set correctly
00:17:13	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Backfill not being i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:17:14	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Backfill not being i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:17:18	Manu:	Reacted to "Backfill not being i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:17:56	pawan:	Reacted to "Backfill not being i..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:19:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Were all the bugs in devnet-2 fixed or did we patch it over with validator messing around?
00:19:19	Manu:	+1 about devnet-2 stability
00:19:22	MatthewKeil:	Very much agreed
00:20:21	Justin Florentine (Besu):	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7910
00:20:27	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with â•
00:20:30	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with â•
00:20:38	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with â•
00:20:54	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "https://eips.ethereu..." with â•
00:21:08	FLCL:	want to see it on devnet-2?
00:21:22	Barnabas:	We havenâ€™t officially â€œincludedâ€ this for devnet 3 scope. 

Can we all agree that we need this? 

Also can we add forkid to 7910?
00:21:24	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Besu has a PR in review
00:22:10	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	forkId is the currentHash in the EIP, isn;t?
00:22:17	Tim Beiko:	+1 to extending eth_config
00:23:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	7910 is much broader than forkid
00:23:25	Barnabas:	Could someone make a PR to 7910 regarding the forkid change?
00:23:37	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "Could someone make a..."

I can do
00:23:41	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I can do" with ğŸ‘
00:23:55	Barnabas:	Replying to "Could someone make a..."

it should probably include all historical, and scheduled forks then right?
00:23:58	milen | Erigon:	Erigon implemented it
00:24:13	Justin Florentine (Besu):	besu has a pr in flight
00:24:18	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "besu has a pr in fli..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:24:20	Barnabas:	Reacted to "besu has a pr in fli..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:24:41	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Replying to "Could someone make a..."

yeh, probably yes, that is a good idea
00:24:46	FLCL:	we plan to add it this week
00:24:49	Barnabas:	Reacted to "yeh, probably yes, t..." with ğŸ‘
00:24:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we plan to add it th..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:24:58	Marius:	No
00:25:11	Roman:	same as nm
00:25:17	Roman:	planning to add it this week
00:25:48	Barnabas:	7910 will be in scope of devnet 3 then
00:25:53	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "7910 will be in scop..." with â•
00:26:00	Barnabas:	and we will expect clients to have it.
00:29:42	Mario Vega:	@Marcin Sobczak should this be merged for devnet-3: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9969  ?
00:30:09	FLCL:	May it be someone has secp256r1 benchmarks?
00:31:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	did we not already decide to do the 3x?
00:31:47	spencer-tb:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

2x I think!
00:32:01	spencer-tb:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

(For the curve)
00:32:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

I thought 2x was the r1
00:32:32	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

ACD discussion was this:
Increase the modExp gas cost with this PR: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9969
00:32:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

So 3x
00:32:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

source: https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/745077610685661265/1390396429918404690
00:33:03	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "source: https://disc..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:33:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "source: https://disc..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:33:32	Francesco:	Reacted to "source: https://disc..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:33:40	Louis:	Replying to "May it be someone ha..."

Maybe this?
https://github.com/NethermindEth/gas-benchmarks/tree/main/tests-wip/Precompiles 

https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/blob/e88a2113f6d93ded665a15e8e4de448c03453175/tests/benchmark/test_worst_compute.py#L1067
00:33:50	Marius:	Replying to "did we not already d..." 

 2x for r1, 3x for modexp
00:33:53	Tim Beiko:	All the feedback I got is that the effect on projects is minimal (for ModExp 3x)
00:33:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "2x for r1, 3x for mo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:33:58	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "2x for r1, 3x for mo..." with ğŸ™
00:34:01	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "2x for r1, 3x for mo..." with ğŸ™
00:34:03	FLCL:	Reacted to "All the feedback I g..." with ğŸ«¡
00:34:03	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "All the feedback I g..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:35:02	Christine Kim:	Replying to "did we not already d..."

https://christinedkim.substack.com/p/acde-215-minutes
00:35:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "https://christinedki..." with ğŸ”¥
00:35:45	Louis:	Reacted to "2x for r1, 3x for mo..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:36:07	Louis:	What about CLZ gas cost?
00:36:15	Parithosh Jayanthi:	And yeah we can chat in the gas limit testing channel about if 3x still wonâ€™t get us to 100M or not, mainly since going beyond that would likely need glamsterdam and a more comprehensive repricing is planned there
00:39:31	Barnabas:	why do you verify builder workflow at all?
00:39:36	Francesco:	Reacted to "why do you verify bu..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:44	Barnabas:	its not like you have any say in this
00:39:59	Barnabas:	it even makes less sense to verify
00:40:14	J Sunnyside Labs:	Just to add regarding GetBlobs, can we get EL metrics for it standardized across ELs for devnet-3? https://github.com/ethereum/execution-metrics/pull/2
00:41:37	pawan:	Replying to "it even makes less s..."

Yeah I realize now that we only verify after we have already signed the block, so doesnâ€™t help us even if its invalid
00:43:40	Barnabas:	lets have the pr open asap imo
00:43:48	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "lets have the pr ope..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:44:43	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "lets have the pr ope..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:23	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "lets have the pr ope..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:40	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "lets have the pr ope..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:45:40	Tim Beiko:	Maybe before SFI?
00:45:49	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Maybe before SFI?" with ğŸ™
00:45:49	Tim Beiko:	Would open a PR to 7723
00:46:24	spencer-tb:	Replying to "Would open a PR to 7..."

Happy to do that unless anyone else wants to ğŸ™‚
00:46:32	Barnabas:	Replying to "Would open a PR to 7..."

sendit
00:46:36	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "sendit" with ğŸ™
00:47:14	Barnabas:	whats the PR @Ben Adams ?
00:47:21	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9969
00:48:14	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

this is not transaction cap pr
00:48:27	Toni Wahrstaetter:	If we really want to do this for fusaka, we should change 7825. I put it into a different eip since I assumed fusaka is frozen. 
We might need it in the future (post-fusaka).
00:48:33	Ben Adams:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9984
00:48:50	FLCL:	Reacted to "If we really want to..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:17	spencer-tb:	Feels safer so I am in favour!
00:49:32	jochem-brouwer:	Process wise its basically the same as changing gas price of CLZ. But do we have the analysis that this does not break major things?
00:50:11	Barnabas:	I would just make a pr to 7825.
00:51:45	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	question: system calls will also go to 16M? (they already have a 30M cap today)
00:53:10	FLCL:	Reacted to "question: system cal..." with â•
00:56:20	Marius:	Will push the change asap
00:56:35	Marcin Sobczak:	Reacted to "Will push the change..." with â¤ï¸
00:56:37	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Will push the change..." with â¤ï¸
00:56:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Mentioned in gas limit channel: https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1364000461568610415/1391793763441049681
00:56:42	Antoine James:	Thank you!
00:56:44	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	tks all!
