00:02:25	Ben Edgington:	gm & hny
00:03:51	nixo:	gm
00:03:53	EF Berlin office:	Rugged
00:03:55	jochem-brouwer:	Happy new years :)
00:03:58	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Rugged" with ğŸ™‚
00:04:10	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Rugged" with ğŸ™‚
00:04:12	nixo:	Reacted to "Rugged" with ğŸ™‚
00:04:17	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Happy new years :)" with ğŸš€
00:04:36	Chris Berry:	Happy New Year!
00:04:43	Milos:	Reacted to "Happy new years :)" with ğŸš€
00:06:11	lightclient:	a lot of ppl in regular link
00:08:10	Åukasz Rozmej:	I'm afraid of too much meeting fragmentation and too many meetings in general. Soon we will need full-time position just to join all meetings.
00:08:53	Barnabas:	Iâ€™d suggest if we do ACDG, it should replace a ACDT/E/C, instead of adding to it.
00:08:59	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I'm afraid of too ..."

This ACDG meeting is about improving the ACD(E/C) process itself so we can focus on the decision on ACD(E/C) and the process improvement in ACDG
00:09:09	lightclient:	Reacted to "I'm afraid of too mu..." with ğŸ‘
00:09:09	nixo:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

they should start using the calendar or the discord-posted link ğŸ™‚
00:09:13	Antoine James:	Reacted to "I'm afraid of too mu..." with ğŸ‘
00:09:25	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "I'm afraid of too mu..."

yeah but I want to know about those potential changes, they afffect me
00:09:25	Barnabas:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

whats the â€œregular linkâ€ ? And where does it live?
00:09:44	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "yeah but I want to..." met ğŸ‘
00:10:31	lightclient:	â€œregular linkâ€ is the ACDT one on the calendar
00:10:44	Guillaume:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

there's a calendar? I only get ACDC in my calendar
00:10:47	nixo:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

ACDT link - they prolly saved the link cuz itâ€™s a recurring zoom meeting
00:11:12	nixo:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

@Guillaume itâ€™s on the Ethereum Protocol calendar. listed in the pm repo
00:11:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

did we successfully move everyone over to this call?
00:11:38	nixo:	Replying to "a lot of ppl in regu..."

iâ€™ll check
00:11:44	Guillaume:	Reacted to "@Guillaume itâ€™s on t..." with ğŸ‘
00:11:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	not my suggestion
00:12:06	Barnabas:	Replying to "not my suggestion"

Iâ€™m you now.
00:12:17	Ansgar Dietrichs:	we wonâ€™t have time for sync discussion of these topics today, you can find the links to these proposals in the github agenda: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1854#issuecomment-3708564165
00:12:23	Colin Kelly:	Reacted to "I'm afraid of too ..." with ğŸ‘
00:12:24	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "we wonâ€™t have time f..." with ğŸ‘
00:12:26	nixo:	Reacted to "we wonâ€™t have time f..." with ğŸ‘
00:13:11	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "I'm afraid of too ..." with ğŸ‘
00:14:00	Pooja Ranjan:	Thank you!
00:15:40	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i'm only seeing a black screen being shared, what'd i do wrong
00:15:50	Åukasz Rozmej:	So my comment: I don't expect many people joining that ACDG meetings because: already too many meetings, governance & politics is boring ect. So would this meeting mean there are decisions that are made there? Or it will just be proposals which will be brought later to other ACD calls? If that is the case it more "governance breakout room", and it is fine. Another question how often do you expect those meetings?
00:16:56	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "So my comment: I don..."

Itâ€™s a big difference indeed if it is a decision-making body or just a forum for deeper discussion, that can make a recommendation, where the decision is then taken on a regular call for example.
00:17:18	Yassine Ferhane:	Itâ€™s once per month
00:17:42	Csaba:	As a reminder I would have 2 Networking EIPs (8077, 8094) to introduce briefly. Would take 3 minutes.
00:18:56	CPerezz:	Reacted to "As a reminder I woul..." with ğŸ‘€
00:19:54	Antoine James:	Reacted to "As a reminder I woul..." with ğŸ‘€
00:20:27	jochem-brouwer:	I think this one https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7954
00:21:32	Pooja Ranjan:	Replying to "So my comment: I don..."

So would this meeting mean there are decisions that are made there? 

In short, yes. ACD-G would define the processâ€”for example, limiting an upgrade to five EIPsâ€”while EIP selection and decision enforcement would remain within ACD.

Expected participants include EIP Editors and the EF Protocol Coordination / Protocol Support teams; however, interested client team representatives and other community participants are also welcome.
00:21:49	Marcin Sobczak:	We prepared an EIP for increasing price of point evaluation precompile: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-8096.mdPoint Evaluation is currently performing in all clients ~32MGas/s on reference machine which is a bottleneck for compute on protocol level.It is not included in general repricing eip, so we proposed brand new EIP-8096, potentially it can be unified with next iteration of general repricing eip.
00:23:00	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s once per month" with ğŸ‘
00:23:17	Ben Adams:	I would prefer to have some increase
00:23:22	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "I would prefer to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:27	frangio:	Reacted to "I would prefer to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:23:58	Åukasz Rozmej:	I prefer smaller bump without complexity
00:24:29	Charles:	i'm all for removing the 24kb speed bump
00:24:31	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I would prefer to ..." met ğŸ‘
00:24:35	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I prefer smaller b..." met ğŸ‘
00:24:53	Marius van der Wijden:	My prio list high to low: doing nothing, small bump, 2926, 7907
00:24:57	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I prefer smaller b..."

Support for bump w/h gas price change (so just static bump and no further changes)
00:25:12	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "My prio list high ..." met ğŸ‘
00:25:20	Guillaume:	Reacted to "My prio list high to..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:21	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I prefer smaller bum..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:23	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Support for bump w/h..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:25:23	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "My prio list high to..." 

 Any change will require significant benchmarking efforts
00:25:25	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to My prio list high to... with "ğŸ‘"
00:25:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I prefer smaller bum... with "ğŸ‘"
00:25:56	EF Berlin office:	Replying to "My prio list high to..."

Yeah but hasnâ€™t this been a massive ask from the community justifying the efforts?
00:25:59	Barnabas:	didnâ€™t we agree last few calls that 7907 is headliner sized change? In which case, this should probably be proposed for hegota, and just DFI now?
00:26:17	Greg K | Lido:	Reacted to "didnâ€™t we agree l..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:23	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "didnâ€™t we agree last..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:24	CPerezz:	Reacted to "My prio list high to..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:26	Pooja Ranjan:	Replying to "So my comment: I don..."

@Anders Elowsson 
ACDG will serve as a discussion and decision-making forum, helping save time in ACD meetings by allowing those calls to focus on technical specifications. This ensures that governance questions are resolved early and technical meetings remain technical.

ACD-G aligns on governance and process, while ACD enforces and executes.
00:26:42	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "My prio list high to..."

Do we have an idea how to do 2926 without performance hit on clients?
00:26:43	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "My prio list high to..." 

 Yes definitely, I just don't see anyone doing the leg work for it yet (except maybe Carlos)
00:26:50	Ben Adams:	Replying to "didnâ€™t we agree last..."

Is fairly small; was just too late in fork last time
00:26:56	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Yes definitely, I ju..." with ğŸ˜…
00:27:02	EF Berlin office:	Reacted to "Yes definitely, I ju..." with ğŸ˜…
00:27:35	EF Berlin office:	Replying to "My prio list high to..."

Usual circular dependency problem I guess, people wonâ€™t do the work until the thing is scheduled
00:27:40	felipe:	An early complexity assessment for the testing team for EIP-7907 puts this at a medium complexity, leaning on the higher end because of the account changes on the testing infra. The simpler approach would make this significantly lower.
00:28:45	jochem-brouwer:	This delta has been proposed before with the challenges Ansgar described
00:28:58	CPerezz:	Replying to "My prio list high to..."

I am doing it. But Iâ€™m blocked on PRs such that I can bloat bloatnet again and have an answer to the performance claims
00:29:03	CPerezz:	Replying to "My prio list high to..."

So we can take a data-driven decision
00:29:15	Charles:	Replying to "An early complexit..."

what is the simpler approach?
00:29:27	Ben Adams:	Replying to "An early complexity ..."

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7954
00:29:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to didnâ€™t we agree last... with "ğŸ‘"
00:29:30	Åukasz Rozmej:	Yeah I also am thinking 7907 as a dead end and we should focus on 2926-like chunking - how to prototype/implement it correctly for H* to avoid performance hit.
00:29:34	felipe:	Replying to "An early complexit..."

EIP-7954 for example
00:29:41	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Yeah I also am think..." with ğŸ‘€
00:29:43	felipe:	Reacted to "https://eips.ether..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:46	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "My prio list high to..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:53	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Yeah I also am think..." with ğŸ‘€
00:29:54	Charles:	Reacted to "https://eips.ether..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:59	Han | Stateless:	Reacted to "Yeah I also am think..." with ğŸ‘€
00:30:17	Guillaume:	Reacted to "Yeah I also am think..." with ğŸ˜
00:30:27	Han | Stateless:	Reacted to "Yeah I also am think..." with ğŸ˜
00:31:08	CPerezz:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

What made you change your mind? Since you objected a bit last call. Curious to know!! 

Would help to frame it for H* if this time it doesnâ€™t make it! ğŸ™‚
00:31:11	EF Berlin office:	Can we quickly discuss who is doing the data gathering work?
00:31:17	EF Berlin office:	i.e assign the work stream to someone
00:31:39	jochem-brouwer:	I don't want to overload myself, I could assist here but do not want to take this task
00:31:48	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

I objected on the scope size + timing + lack of prototype mostlyI just think it is a big one
00:31:56	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Can we quickly discu..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:07	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

and I think it isn't obvious how to make it performant
00:32:22	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

quite the contrary
00:32:23	Barnabas:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

maybe I was mixing 7907 with 2926. Whatâ€™s the scope of 2926 chunking? Is that a headliner sized change?
00:32:35	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "maybe I was mixing 7..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:47	lightclient:	Reacted to "Yeah I also am think..." with ğŸ‘€
00:33:13	EF Berlin office:	Can we then align on what data is important to collect by next week?
00:33:25	EF Berlin office:	Just generic, think more about it or something specific?
00:33:27	frangio:	is bump to 32 on the table for next week?
00:33:29	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

Hard to say, it might be close, but it is not "cool", so I don't see it as a headliner for popularity reasons
00:33:40	Guillaume:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

exactly
00:34:23	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "Yeah I also am think..."

but my intuition is that unless cleverly done it will hit performance bad
00:34:32	jochem-brouwer:	Ansgar, for 7907 we have thus decided that we bump to 32 and not do the gas accounting? So like EIP-7654
00:34:39	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "Ansgar, for 7907 w..."

For decision next week
00:34:43	lightclient:	i donâ€™t think it actually removes the limit, just increases the limit to 2x the contract code size limit
00:34:55	Charles:	i've done the benchmarking for 7903, there are no jumpdest attacks
00:35:14	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

I collected a bunch of data on different size contract reading.

For empty state data suggests linear increase and recommended hardware is fine. 

But I need to test this in bloat net and I will be able to provide perf and IO numbers for all sizes of contracts (up to 24 as nothing else is supported so far)
00:35:22	Charles:	Replying to "i donâ€™t think it ..."

it was already 2x the contract size limit, it's either removing the limit entirely or bumping it
00:35:35	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

I can try to have for next week the same data over 2.5x main net size and try to use this data to decide
00:36:43	EF Berlin office:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

Okay and is it just spa moor PRs missing from your side?
00:36:59	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

Yes. And then PRs in execution-specs
00:37:10	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

I have PRs everywhere already, Just need the merges and run the tests then
00:37:18	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

If I get the merges I can have the data by next week
00:37:44	EF Berlin office:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

Cc @Mario Vega and @pk910 I guess?
00:37:49	CPerezz:	Reacted to "I objected on the sc..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Cc @Mario Vega and @..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:38:15	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

Pk is on it already. For the execution-specs theyâ€™re overloaded. I think @Louis is on it
00:38:28	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

@CPerezz send the PR numbers via dm and weâ€™ll prioritize
00:38:32	EF Berlin office:	Reacted to "Pk is on it already...." with â¤ï¸
00:39:23	lightclient:	I think 7997 is nice
00:39:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I think 7997 is nice" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:40:10	CPerezz:	Replying to "Can we then align on..."

https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/pull/1961
00:40:24	Charles:	i'd like to bring up 7923 again, i was not available to advocate for it last time. i also wrote an argument for 7923 and against 8024 here https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-8024-backward-compatible-swapn-dupn-exchange/25486/3
00:40:25	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "I think 7997 is nice"

I like it has no EOA requried toehold.
00:40:51	raxhvl:	Reacted to I think 7997 is nice with "ğŸ‘ğŸ¼"
00:41:54	lightclient:	we have added several system contracts now though so we kind of know how to do it
00:42:01	Mario Vega:	Replying to "I think 7997 is nice"

Itâ€™s indeed nice to have, we are going to use it a lot for execute tests, it would be nice for it to be ready instead of having to deploy it each time
00:42:07	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "we have added severa..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:14	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "we have added severa..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:33	Barnabas:	Could we CFI it and see if its actually a difficult lift?
00:42:41	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Could we CFI it and ..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:45	lightclient:	Reacted to "Could we CFI it and ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:42:48	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Could we CFI it an..." met ğŸ‘
00:42:50	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Could we CFI it an..." met ğŸ”¥
00:42:51	Csaba:	Reacted to "Could we CFI it and ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:42:52	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Could we CFI it and ..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:58	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Could we CFI it an..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:00	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "Could we CFI it and ..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:47	jochem-brouwer:	Yes agreed with Felix, we have simple community asks, ship it (or at least try to)
00:43:49	Marius van der Wijden:	Very much in the nice to have category for me
00:43:58	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Could we CFI it and ..." with ğŸ”¥
00:45:38	Marius van der Wijden:	I'm leaning slightly against 8058 for glam
00:45:41	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "@Anders Elowsson 
..." met ğŸ‘
00:45:43	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "So would this meet..." met ğŸ‘
00:45:54	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I'm leaning slightly..." 

 Because of scope creep
00:46:19	CPerezz:	Reacted to "I'm leaning slightly..." with ğŸ˜¡
00:48:20	Marius van der Wijden:	Do we have a list of cfi'd eips for scope considerations?
00:49:06	lightclient:	canâ€™t we keep encoding the same just ensure it is always 0?
00:49:17	Marius van der Wijden:	We could just put 0x000.. instead. I don't think we can remove the header field
00:49:22	Justin Florentine (Besu):	can anyone see my chat yet?
00:49:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to canâ€™t we keep encodi... with "ğŸ‘"
00:49:28	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

yes
00:49:29	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "canâ€™t we keep encodi..."

what benefit? just so you dont calculate them?
00:49:30	Ben Adams:	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

yes
00:49:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

now we can
00:49:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

welcome back
00:49:32	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Removing bloom filters and replacing it with the log filter summary is  better option
00:49:36	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "canâ€™t we keep enc..."

The logs bloom of an execution block is now required to be empty (ie. 0 bytes long). The logs bloom of a transaction receipt is now required to be empty (ie. 0 bytes long).
00:49:55	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "canâ€™t we keep enc..."

Part of spec, its now 0x. Can also change to 0x00..00 or 0xff..ff
00:50:02	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "canâ€™t we keep enc..."

(latter being an always hit filter)
00:50:30	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

fuckin corporate managed laptops fml... all I was trying to say is that if 7907 comes back next call, will there be a written proposal for just a size increase without the added cost mechanic
00:50:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

we had nothing to add for 7997, it's fine just lower priority
00:51:35	Ben Adams:	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

@Justin Florentine (Besu) https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7954
00:51:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

word, thanks man
00:52:06	lightclient:	Replying to "can anyone see my ch..."

corporate has decided we wonâ€™t be doing 7907 this fork
00:52:29	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "corporate has decide..." with ğŸ˜…
00:52:32	jochem-brouwer:	I'm not gonna push this but I get the feeling that the bloom filter is misunderstood due to its title. Title: "remove bloom filters". However the EIP spec just says: bloom filters are now always 0x. So they are not "removed" they are just this constant value.
Just to inform everyone. Will revisit in Hegota
00:52:57	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I'm not gonna push..."

Specification
The logs bloom of an execution block is now required to be empty (ie. 0 bytes long). The logs bloom of a transaction receipt is now required to be empty (ie. 0 bytes long).
00:53:05	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I'm not gonna push..."

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7668
00:53:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	geth and besu signalled for 7745 inclusion, nethermind and erigon against
00:53:17	Åukasz Rozmej:	it is consensus, it is as dangerous as consensus issue
00:54:38	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	For 7745 it is better to postpone it to next fork just from the implementation and also the deep testing and fuzzing required for the filtermap X log index
00:55:16	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	I have been working on implementing it inside nimbus el and also some feedback from other devs of the ideas
00:55:49	Justin Florentine (Besu):	we agree it is very big, but a potentially big unlock for cross-chain functionality
00:57:58	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "we agree it is ver..." met ğŸ‘
01:02:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	sidequestion: is it really trustless if it's not covered by the stf?
01:02:34	Åukasz Rozmej:	@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi propose it for H* headliner
01:02:54	Tamaghna Choudhuri:	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

+1
01:02:58	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

you think this is headliner size?
01:03:11	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

we agree it is very big, but a potentially big unlock for cross-chain functionality
01:03:26	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

if very big isn't headliner size than what is? :)
01:03:57	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

FOCIL i guess is what i'm framing it against
01:04:33	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

for EL this is bigger than FOCIL
01:05:18	Felix (Geth):	sorry I always forget
01:05:46	nixo:	are we not going 90 minutes?
01:06:08	Marius van der Wijden:	I think we should dfi 7793
01:06:15	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/conditional-transactions-eip-7793-for-glamsterdam-faq/27228
01:06:17	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I think we should df..."

BOOOOOOO
01:06:26	felix (eest):	Reacted to "BOOOOOOO" with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:28	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I think we should df..."

Why DFI?
01:06:28	Marc:	Reacted to "https://ethereum-magâ€¦" with â¤ï¸
01:06:29	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I think we should df..."

c'mon its tiny
01:06:31	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "BOOOOOOO" with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:35	Åukasz Rozmej:	I can go for 120 :D
01:06:41	nixo:	Reacted to "BOOOOOOO" with ğŸ˜‚
01:06:48	Barnabas:	The only issue is that we have a rpc standards call thats started 4 mins ago. Not sure if anyone attending that who isnâ€™t here tho.
01:06:51	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "I can go for 120 :D" met ğŸ”¥
01:06:56	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "I can go for 120 :D"

New years energyyyy
01:06:58	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I think we should df..." 

 Its not tiny and it makes block building extremely hard
01:07:03	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "@Zsolt FelfÃ¶ldi prop..."

I see FOCIL more of CL headliner not EL
01:07:24	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "BOOOOOOO" with ğŸ˜‚
01:07:30	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "I think we should df..."

It does not, it is a conditional transaction, not an opcode
01:07:34	Danno Ferrin (Tectonic):	Replying to "I think we should df..."

with slotnum opcode this can be done with a trampoline contract
01:07:51	Marc:	Replying to "I think we should dfâ€¦"
I disagree, would be good to discuss on the thread shared
01:07:59	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "I disagree, would be..." with â•
01:08:20	felipe:	Reacted to "BOOOOOOO" with ğŸ˜‚
