00:07:37	Gabriel Astieres:	gm
00:07:37	nixo:	gm
00:07:47	nixo:	g(eâ€™oc)
00:08:01	stokes:	Replying to "g(eâ€™oc)"

Yeah im not sure how to write that
00:08:04	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "g(eâ€™oc)"

hmmmm solid
00:08:17	stokes:	Replying to "g(eâ€™oc)"

agree
00:09:03	Marius:	Little empty today, hey yall
00:10:09	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Little empty today, ..."

What would you like merged today?
00:10:15	Trent:	Gmgm all! Just published Pectra Pages ğŸ¦’

+40 upgrade perspectives from Ethereum core contributors - many of you submitted, check out the responses from your colleagues. If you have the form open and submit, just let me know and we can update

https://x.com/trent_vanepps/status/1923009753199833396
00:10:24	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1515
00:10:34	nixo:	Reacted to "What would you like ..." with ğŸ’™
00:10:39	mpaulucci | ethrex:	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ‰
00:10:40	nixo:	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ‰
00:10:53	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ™
00:11:21	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Waiting on more time before we publish our followup on how blob scaling went ğŸ™‚ 

Eta next week I guess?
00:11:25	Peter:	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ‰
00:11:30	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "Waiting on more time..." with ğŸ‘
00:11:33	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ‰
00:11:36	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ‰
00:11:36	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Gmgm all! Just publi..." with ğŸ‰
00:12:20	Marius:	Easiest way to make it into the next Laura Shin book
00:12:31	Trent:	Reacted to "Easiest way to make ..." with ğŸ˜
00:12:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Easiest way to make ..." with ğŸ˜
00:12:40	Caleb:	Gm
00:13:43	stokes:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/fusaka-devnet-0
00:14:34	terence:	how is everyone testing BPP before devnet0? kurtosis?
00:14:51	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "Easiest way to make ..." with ğŸ˜
00:15:29	Justin Florentine (Besu):	@Parithosh Jayanthi is there value in Besu joining peerdas-7 if we dont' have BPO yet?
00:15:47	Dustin:	There are many open spec questions, they've been raised in the relevant threads
00:15:52	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "@Parithosh Jayanthi ..."

Yup ğŸ™‚
Devnet-7 has no BPO, and it would help us sanity check that the basic peerdas functionality works
00:16:12	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "There are many open ..."

Iâ€™ve asked Agnish to open PRs for this.
00:16:38	stokes:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/reconfiguring-allcoredevs/23370
00:17:50	Ansgar Dietrichs:	why would ACDT be joined EL and CL, but the ACD calls still split? is there a principled reason why fork + 1 benefits from that split, but current fork doesnâ€™t?
00:18:48	Ansgar Dietrichs:	makes sense, reasonable answer
00:18:52	lightclient:	iâ€™ve said this before but i donâ€™t think we have the capacity for this level of parallelization and the split 33% current fork and 66% fork+1 puts too much emphasis to the farther future fork
00:19:17	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "iâ€™ve said this befor..."

we have both ACDT and ACD every week, right? so 50/50?
00:20:14	lightclient:	Replying to "iâ€™ve said this beforâ€¦"
right my bad
00:22:14	nixo:	Reacted to "cccccbdgjflugtjjlngi..." with ğŸ”‘
00:23:09	Justin Florentine (Besu):	are the ACDTs overflowing?
00:23:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "are the ACDTs overfl..."

Hmm, not this exact week - but there have been times where it was tight. I think it depends on the week and number of open PRs or changes.
00:24:04	stokes:	Replying to "are the ACDTs overfl..."

Yeah I expect as we get closer to fusaka shipping it will be very full
00:24:05	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "are the ACDTs overfl..."

ok, so that will fluctuate
00:24:06	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "are the ACDTs overfl..."

Thankfully we merged most of what was needed for peerdas, hence the lighter calls
00:24:15	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "are the ACDTs overfl..."

They are also 60m right now, right?
00:24:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "are the ACDTs overfl..."

yup
00:24:29	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Thankfully we merged..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	We could actually invite people to present/talk at ACDE/C, something weâ€™ve had no bandwidth for in the past due to how much we needed to discuss on the next fork
00:26:26	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "We could actually in..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:30	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to We could actually in... with "ğŸ‘"
00:26:35	stokes:	Reacted to "We could actually in..." with ğŸ‘
00:26:53	sacha:	Reacted to "We could actually in..." with â¤ï¸
00:26:56	Dustin:	How much will community input even exist until perpetually last moment? That's what happened for EOF. Putting aside the idea of, people said thing X happened in October or November (trying not to reopen every issue...), EOF still existed for years and was mostly ignored by all those people who came up in the last minute bothered by changes it made (again, being deliberately vague here)
00:26:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	so to summarize, there are three stages:
A) roadmap discussion
B) inclusion / scope discussion
C) shipping discussion

I fundamentally donâ€™t think â€œAâ€ should be in scope for acd, nor has it ever been historically.
And splitting â€œBâ€ and â€œCâ€ out more clearly makes sense in principle, but right now hard forks are so far apart that these stages are only partially overlapping to begin with
00:27:07	lightclient:	Reacted to "How much will communâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:27:50	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "We could actually in..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:19	lightclient:	reviewing breakouts make a lot of sense to me
00:28:26	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	and if the decision is to keep the breakout, there should be a delegate from every client team in the breakout call
00:28:33	Francesco:	Reacted to "reviewing breakouts ..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:35	nixo:	Reacted to "reviewing breakouts ..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:20	Tim Beiko:	IDK if every team, but it should be a good signal
00:29:20	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so to summarize, the..."

basically, acd is the executive branch.
roadmap is legislative branch
(and community / stakers are judical branch)

this is proposing to merge executive and legislative branches, I think that is a big conceptual mistake
00:29:23	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "and if the decision ..."

love this idea, only callout i see is as we spread teams a little thinner, timezone avail gets worse.
00:29:36	sacha:	Replying to "How much will commun..."

sort of chicken and egg here imo
00:29:43	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so to summarize, the..."

I do think the lesson from the past year should be that the legislative (roadmap) branch needs a rework
00:29:49	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "How much will commun..."

I think we can be much clearer about when we expect community input
00:29:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "reviewing breakouts ..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:53	sacha:	Reacted to "I do think the lesso..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:00	sacha:	Replying to "so to summarize, the..."

i think A needs wider community input, even if ACD is not the right place for that
00:30:00	Marius:	People really self select into the breakouts. You only join them if you are interested in the idea. You don't join them if you think an idea is stupid/early/not realistic
00:30:12	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "How much will commun..."

Right now we kind of expect it â€œall the timeâ€ which leads to â€œonly the last momentâ€, but we should basically signal the core times.
00:30:15	sacha:	Reacted to "I think we can be mu..." with â¤ï¸
00:30:27	Åukasz Rozmej:	If Glamsterdam is in a year I think we should start scoping it soon.
00:30:32	Roman:	Reacted to "If Glamsterdam is in..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:34	Marc:	Reacted to "If Glamsterdam is inâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:30:34	Roman:	Reacted to "If Glamsterdam is in..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:36	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "People really self s..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:38	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	the problem with breakouts not having enough feedback is the lack of participation from teams even after the decision to make a commitment to those breakouts.
00:30:38	Roman:	Reacted to "If Glamsterdam is in..." with ğŸ’¯
00:30:40	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to People really self s... with "ğŸ’¯"
00:30:41	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "People really self s..."

Yes, but having a +1 from ACD that itâ€™s not a stupid idea is good.
00:30:45	spencer:	Reacted to "If Glamsterdam is inâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:31:00	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "If Glamsterdam is in..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:04	spencer:	Reacted to "People really self sâ€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:31:31	Åukasz Rozmej:	each breakout room should have a healthcheck every few months on ACD calls with short summary of status and gathering some basic feedback
00:31:45	CPerezz:	Reacted to "each breakout room s..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "each breakout room s..." with â¤ï¸
00:31:47	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "and if the decision ..."

without the commitment, reviewing the breakout makes a bit less sense as it still means that one the EIPs are proposed for the fork, the feedback will still be very late
00:32:04	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "each breakout room s..."

timebox the healthcheck dependent on agenda to 10, 15, 20, 30 mins
00:32:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think researchers are only one relevant group for roadmap setting, but for helping make our work on roadmap more open we have these new research calls, I think these can help here

(definitely only as part of the solution!)
00:32:25	Justin Florentine (Besu):	get your rotten vegetables ready to throw at me....

should we hire project managers?
00:32:25	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "and if the decision ..." 

 But then we have to be more selective for breakouts. Right now it feels like every topic, no matter if it's planned for a fork, gets a breakout room.
00:32:35	sacha:	Reacted to "I think researchers ..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "get your rotten vege..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:32:39	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "and if the decision ..."

agreed on being more selective for breakouts
00:32:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

I think e.g. app devs should coordinate to spin up a similar call!
00:32:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

We love re-inventing things from first principles in this house
00:32:53	sacha:	Reacted to "I think e.g. app dev..." with ğŸ‘€
00:33:08	sacha:	Reacted to "We love re-inventing..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:12	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

NO!!!! You can grow/create them from existing people, but please not hire.
00:33:20	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "NO!!!! You can grow/..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:33:40	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

let me rephrase:

should we pay people to project manage?
00:33:48	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

ğŸ¥šğŸ…
00:33:54	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "I think researchers ..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:56	Dustin:	Ok, but it's still ok to have EIPs which are technical and "back-end" and not just immediately add marketing features
00:33:58	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "But then we have to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:58	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..." 

 ğŸ…
00:33:58	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to "ğŸ¥šğŸ…" with ğŸ˜…
00:34:02	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "agreed on being more..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:16	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I also think - most controversial - the EF should fill more of an explicit role in the roadmap setting. I think that actually could be quite healthy:

legislative: EF-led, relatively centralized
executive: core devs led, more decentralized
judicative: stakers / community: most decentralized
00:34:19	Dustin:	Contra all those responses to various EIPs of "what does this EIP do for me, today?"
00:34:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

And we do need to ack that devs donâ€™t always make good project managers. They can make good managers, but many also donâ€™t ğŸ¥²
00:34:28	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

who are "we" ? :D
00:34:33	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

need to try and bring node operators into this process too somehow
00:34:39	Barnabas:	Replying to "get your rotten vege..."

we have a managooor already its @Parithosh Jayanthi
00:34:45	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "I also think - most ..." with ğŸ…
00:34:51	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "we have a managooor ..." with ğŸ¼
00:34:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we have a managooor ..." with ğŸ¼
00:35:21	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "we have a managooor ..." with ğŸ¼
00:35:30	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "we have a managooor ..." with ğŸ¼
00:35:55	nixo:	Reacted to "I also think - most ..." with ğŸ…
00:36:26	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "we have a managooor ..." with ğŸ¼
00:36:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	meta point: I would agree that experiments are worth trying
00:36:42	nixo:	Reacted to "meta point: I would ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:44	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "meta point: I would ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:45	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "meta point: I would ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:36:50	spencer:	Reacted to "get your rotten vegeâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:36:51	sacha:	Reacted to "Right now we kind of..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:51	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "meta point: I would ..."

letâ€™s just try to make Glamsterdam not get too off the rails :-)
00:36:52	Caspar:	Reacted to "we have a managooor ..." with ğŸ¼
00:37:15	hangleang:	Reacted to "meta point: I woul..." with ğŸ’¯
00:37:18	nixo:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/for-an-acd-platform/24098
00:37:26	Tim Beiko:	Iâ€™ll write up a one-pager for the Glamsterdam process by next ACD ğŸ«¡
00:37:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "meta point: I would ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:37:32	stokes:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ll write up a one-..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:33	sacha:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ll write up a one-..." with â¤ï¸
00:37:36	lightclient:	eof had stake holders very early in the process
00:37:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ll write up a one-..." with â¤ï¸
00:37:52	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ll write up a one-..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "eof had stake holder..." with ğŸ’¯
00:37:59	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think stakeholders need to not only be involved in EVM changes - they need to drive them.

We canâ€™t keep guessing what could be useful for them, even if we check with them afterwards
00:38:09	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

@sacha think there was a good representation in the first call which was more on their topic?
00:38:14	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "eof had stake holder..." with ğŸ’¯
00:38:31	sacha:	Reacted to "@sacha think there w..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:01	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ll write up a one-..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:05	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "I think stakeholders..."

market. analysis.
00:39:28	Dustin:	Replying to "I think stakeholde..."

Not sure if this is good/bad, but this is a process designed for a maintenance/bugfixing model of the EVM. People will likely ask for some feature, or precompile, but likely not look at things architecturally.
00:39:42	Josh Davis:	@Marc working on this ğŸ™‚
00:40:05	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

yes. that was a great first step!

in my experience, they often want to be heard but don't know how to be 

most of the tiem they feel like they're just "told" what to do and at some point i worry it's going to hit an inflection point where they won't be able to do what you expect (e.g. it'll put them out of business) and it'll cause issues (e.g. solana validator mutiny)
00:40:10	Tim Beiko:	My one suggestion would be to anchor to already exists vs. Creating yet another platform that will be abandoned in 18 months
00:40:15	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

@sacha I would actually take the other side of this: if you count features since the merge, there have been more staking related features than anything else. specifically because stakers / node operators are the direct customers of client teams, so they have the most direct connection to the acd participants.

compared to say app devs, with no such connection at all. or even L2s.
00:40:16	Dustin:	Replying to "I think stakeholde..."

Also, some of this is already done -- look at what changes various L2s make to their each bespoke custom ancient Geth forks
00:40:30	stokes:	Reacted to "My one suggestion wo..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:30	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "My one suggestion wo..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:31	nixo:	Reacted to "My one suggestion wo..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

network effects are hard to rebuild
00:40:44	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "My one suggestion wo..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:13	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

i think you need more direct input from both!
00:41:16	Josh Davis:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

I think that anchoring this to something that already exists runs the risk of not attracting the stakeholders we are looking for feedback from. If they donâ€™t come now, why would they come later?
00:41:23	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

to make the best possible decisions
00:41:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think stakeholders..."

yes thatâ€™s why I am saying, acd is fundamentally the wrong format for this
00:41:38	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

are node operatorsâ€¦ the military? ğŸ˜…
00:41:43	sacha:	Reacted to "are node operatorsâ€¦ ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:49	stokes:	Reacted to "are node operatorsâ€¦ ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:50	Josh Davis:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

@BarnabÃ© Monnot militia
00:41:56	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

security?
00:41:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "are node operatorsâ€¦ ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:57	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

same logic applies to a new thing that they didn't go to
00:42:10	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

ğŸ™‚
00:42:33	Tim Beiko:	+1 on impact
00:42:35	Ansgar Dietrichs:	ha, no one will ever know what happened in that second
00:42:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ha, no one will ever..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:42:51	Tim Beiko:	I think for headliners we should enforce it
00:43:02	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "ha, no one will ever..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:43:14	Barnabas:	UX + impact for end user research should be prioritized a lot lot more agreed.
00:43:24	Josh Davis:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

Not necessarily, current platforms have a stigma currently. If a new platform is created with the direct goal of being for stakeholder and not just devs, I think it could be a more active/attractive place
00:43:28	Marc:	Reacted to "@Marc working on thiâ€¦" with ğŸ’¯
00:43:30	Trent:	Reacted to "My one suggestion wo..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:40	felix (eest):	Reacted to "we have a managooo..." with ğŸ¼
00:43:42	Trent:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

EM has a stigma?
00:43:44	Tim Beiko:	EthMagicians has that intent, though
00:44:15	Josh Davis:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

I also wonder about the limitations of discourse in building this as well
00:44:17	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "Iâ€™ll write up a one-..." with â¤ï¸
00:44:19	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

ehhhhhhh maybe i could see that. i think the important part is preserving the existing population
00:44:25	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "ehhhhhhh maybe i cou..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:34	Ansgar Dietrichs:	just to keep taking Glamsterdam as an example: conversations about priorities for it have been ongoing for a while already! (mostly outside acd).

I think current consensus forming is:

CL: focus on DA scaling. maybe (!) shorter slot times, help with EL scaling
EL: focus on scaling

seems like the process is working as intended?
00:44:35	Marc:	Replying to "eof had stake holderâ€¦"
yeah wasnâ€™t trying to single out EOF, maybe the problem was not having some clear place everyone gives feedback that could be used as evidence
00:44:39	felix (eest):	Reacted to "ha, no one will ev..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:42	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	+1, and every repricing MUST come with a propoer impact analysis
00:44:45	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

but more seriously I think of them as an important constituent of the community, think they have a privileged position from being typically better informed than the median community member, and being close to the metal/protocol

def important to involve for the topics that directly concern them, for any other topics imo itâ€™s the same issue of just being better at involving community as a whole
00:44:46	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "UX + impact for end ..." with â¤ï¸
00:44:57	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "just to keep taking ..."

like, do these seem like terrible priorities that need urgent reworking?
00:45:04	sacha:	Reacted to "but more seriously I..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:11	felix (eest):	Replying to "ha, no one will ev..."

get ready for the conspiracy theories
00:45:16	sacha:	Replying to "I think researchers ..."

fair
00:45:23	Tim Beiko:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2982
00:45:25	Pooja Ranjan:	https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2982
00:45:31	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to ha, no one will ever... with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:45:42	Josh Davis:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

Is it though? I thought the idea behind this concept was to bring more stakeholders/community members into the fold...
00:46:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Another controversial take: If anything, I feel like the roadmap-to-hardfork translation needs more work, not the roadmap forming itself.

Best example to me is MaxEB vs Peerdas. It was super obvious from the roadmap side that Peerdas was a bigger priority. Was impossible to translate that to fork ordering
00:46:11	Barnabas:	Could we get some UX improvements into glamsterdam, while we are at it?
00:46:12	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

Who do you feel is currently not represented on EthMag?
00:46:37	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "My one suggestion wo..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:42	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

and what problems do we have with the existing population that we would entertain abandoning it?
00:46:42	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

Because it also hosts all the ERC threads, I think it gets a really good sample of the app layer part of the community
00:47:00	Marc:	Replying to "My one suggestion woâ€¦"
the main thing for me is having some clear entry point / portal for accessing the ACD process that makes everything streamlined
00:47:05	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "the main thing for m..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:33	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

I agree with that, and I wonder how much of it we can get from refactoring EM
00:47:39	Josh Davis:	Replying to "My one suggestion wo..."

@Justin Florentine (Besu) Im not suggesting abandoning it, but the current population already has ACD/ethmag. It wouldnâ€™tâ€™t go away
00:47:44	Tim Beiko:	We should never schedule things â€œbetween hard forksâ€ ğŸ˜„
00:47:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "We should never sche..." with ğŸ”¥
00:47:50	nixo:	i think more because maxeb was expected to be simpler
00:47:51	ethDreamer (Mark):	We decided it because we thought peerDAS was parallelizable and it was further away
00:47:54	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "i think more because..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:55	ethDreamer (Mark):	That was the reasoning at the time
00:48:07	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "i think more because..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:11	Tim Beiko:	PeerDAS also progressed quicker than expected in Nyota interop, which then got us to add it to Pectra. 

However, I agree we could have â€œbitten the bulletâ€ there and focused on PeerDAS from the start because it was higher ROI than MaxEB.

IMO â€œtechnical readinessâ€ should be 1/N of the things we evaluate when choosing a headliner.
00:48:12	ethDreamer (Mark):	I watched that old ACD recently lol
00:48:39	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1515#issuecomment-2883885751
00:49:01	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We decided it becaus..."

â€œparallelizableâ€ is meaningless though, if then not actually worked on in parallel
00:49:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "We decided it becaus..."

in practice, fork inclusion is an implementation priority decision
00:49:25	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	when will we finalize the fusaka spec?
00:49:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	but again, experimentation is necessary, so thank you very much for working this proposal out!
00:49:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "but again, experimen..."

all nitpicking aside :-)
00:49:42	Barnabas:	Replying to "when will we finaliz..."

after berlin
00:50:04	sacha:	Reacted to "but again, experimen..." with â¤ï¸
00:50:08	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "but again, experimen..." with â¤ï¸
00:50:13	Nicolas Consigny:	Reacted to "but again, experimen..." with â¤ï¸
00:50:13	Tim Beiko:	On next ACDE, we should decide what other EL EIPs we want for the next 1-2 devnets
00:50:21	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Could we get some UX..."

I think same issue as with EOF: we are missing insights into what would be useful there
00:50:25	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "On next ACDE, we sho..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:25	Mikhail Kalinin:	one of the reasons behind MAXEB was potential decrease of the validator set which reduces the strain on the network. i think it is pretty important for the mainnet security. just wanted to remind that MAXEB isnâ€™t only a UX improvement for stakers
00:50:35	Tim Beiko:	Reacted to "one of the reasons b..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:36	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "one of the reasons b..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Could we get some UX..."

How do we get these insights tho?
00:50:46	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Could we get some UX..."

great question
00:50:47	Kevaundray Wedderburn:	Reacted to "one of the reasons b..." with ğŸ‘
00:50:52	Orest Tarasiuk (t1):	Thanks all
00:50:54	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Could we get some UX..."

but any answer is probably not ready for glamsterdam
00:50:54	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "one of the reasons b..." with ğŸ‘
