00:04:44	Kamil ChodoÅ‚a:	Hi!
00:04:51	Antoine James:	Gm
00:05:08	Mario Vega:	@Antoine James youâ€™re unmuted ğŸ™‚
00:05:17	jochem-brouwer:	gm
00:05:22	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:05:22	nixo:	gm
00:05:24	James He:	gm
00:05:26	Martin | ethrex:	gm
00:05:29	danceratopz:	gm
00:05:31	Ben Adams:	gm
00:06:18	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1736
00:06:59	Justin Traglia:	yeah itâ€™s expected. Doing more non-finality testing.
00:07:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "yeah itâ€™s expected. ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:07:11	danceratopz:	Reacted to "yeah itâ€™s expected. ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:07:38	Justin Traglia:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/892088344438255616/1422209211391283260
00:07:44	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "https://discord.com/..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:08:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Sorry just got on the call
00:08:48	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Did we miss devnet updates?
00:09:43	pawan:	Did we transition to fusaka on that netwwork?
00:09:51	Barnabas:	not yet
00:09:57	Barnabas:	https://dora.fusaka-holsf-1.ethpandaops.io
00:10:03	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	teku-besu, correct?
00:10:04	Barnabas:	1h 17min to go
00:10:06	pawan:	thanks
00:10:07	Barnabas:	Reacted to "teku-besu, correct?" with ğŸ‘
00:10:12	Barnabas:	Replying to "teku-besu, correct?"

check interop please
00:11:17	Jae Hee Lee:	Can we also get to test chaos testing Minhyuk implemented on devnet-3?
00:11:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Can we also get to t..."

Oh yes! Thatâ€™s a good idea too
00:11:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Cc @Barnabas we should merge it in and try
00:11:58	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we also get to t..."

Yeah we can do this in the second half of the week once we recovered the current non finality
00:11:58	Jae Hee Lee:	Reacted to "Oh yes! Thatâ€™s a goo..." with ğŸ‘
00:12:00	Fredrik:	Itâ€™s being merged to the blog soon
00:12:02	felix (eest):	https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/09/26/fusaka-testnet-announcement#execution-layer-holesky-sepolia--hoodi-releases
00:12:12	Jae Hee Lee:	Replying to "Can we also get to t..."

Thanks!
00:12:16	James He:	We have released a version to support fusaka, there are ongoing issues, from a team perspective it should be fine for testate
00:12:20	James He:	testnet
00:12:29	James He:	But for some users there are issues
00:12:33	Gabriel Trintinalia | Besu:	Reacted to "check interop please" with ğŸ‘
00:13:40	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Our todo list for holesky in case we miss something:
client releases
shadowfork
roll our holesky nodes
validate holesky snapshots
spin up one of every client on our stack
tracoor for holesky, forky, dora
dugtrio should be updated and running
update checkpointz
00:15:19	Fredrik:	Perhaps creating a Fusaka dir on the pm repo?
00:15:25	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Perhaps creating a F..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:16:07	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Perhaps creating a F..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:16:28	Pooja Ranjan:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/tree/master/Fusaka
00:17:13	stokes:	i can
00:17:20	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "i can" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:17:22	Fredrik:	Reacted to "i can" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:17:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to i can with "ğŸ‘ğŸ¼"
00:17:46	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "i can" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:18:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "i can" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:18:37	lightclient:	Geth has
00:18:48	lightclient:	yes
00:18:53	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Geth has" with ğŸ”¥
00:20:06	Ameziane Hamlat:	In besu, it is not included in the testnets  release
00:21:32	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/issues/1926#issuecomment-3333544495
00:22:44	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/pull/2160
00:22:58	Louis:	Update to apply eip7825 for Osaka
00:24:00	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Update to apply eip7..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:29:33	jochem-brouwer:	XEN tests mainnet: https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/pull/2101 (currently hardcoded addresses not using stubs yet)
00:30:42	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://ethpandaops.io/data/snapshots/
00:30:44	Parithosh Jayanthi:	This ğŸ˜„
00:34:39	Maria Silva:	Any idea if the bad performance on load for best is only for Xen? Or is it also for other smaller contracts?
00:34:45	Maria Silva:	*sload
00:35:13	Marius van der Wijden:	Sload performance should be pretty independent of contract
00:35:30	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Sload performance sh..." with ğŸ’¯
00:35:34	Marius van der Wijden:	Sstores are dependent on contract size
00:36:29	Maria Silva:	Right, so for Besu are there any changes in optimizations that may make this different from other clients?
00:36:30	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "Sload performance sh..."

Agreed, it is more related to the pattern, accessing non existing slot keys.
00:36:37	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Agreed, it is more r..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:41	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Agreed, it is more r... with "ğŸ‘"
00:39:27	jochem-brouwer:	For these optimizations or specific situations which are good/bad in clients I want to craft specific tests to signal areas where certain clients need (or need not) to spend some focus on ğŸ˜ƒğŸ‘
00:39:29	CPerezz:	Any LSM-based client should have an issue with non-existing leaves right?
00:39:38	Justin Florentine (Besu):	i'd be surrised if that wasn't the case for everyone
00:39:43	Ben Adams:	Could change Sstore not to check current value for pricing ğŸ¤”
00:40:19	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Could change Sstore ..." with ğŸ¤”
00:40:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Could change Sstore ..." 

 I would kinda like that
00:40:44	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Could change Sstore ..." with ğŸ¤”
00:40:46	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Could change Sstore ..."

Is the most expensive (short term) part of sstore
00:41:01	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Could change Sstor..." met ğŸš€
00:41:48	CPerezz:	FYI, all of the cases in https://hackmd.io/9icZeLN7R0Sk5mIjKlZAHQ  will eventually land in EEST. So make sure that whatever you propose isnâ€™t already there.
00:42:01	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "Could change Sstore ..."

we'd be giving up a brake on state growth but...
00:42:05	jochem-brouwer:	Antwoord verzenden naar "Could change Sstor..."

I'd also like to explore this a bit
00:42:21	CPerezz:	Bloatnet scenarios being coded basically
00:42:28	danceratopz:	Reacted to "FYI, all of the case..." with ğŸš€
00:42:32	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "we'd be giving up a ..." with ğŸ¤”
00:42:39	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Could change Sstore ..."

Idk what right answer would be; but maybe something to look into
00:42:43	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "FYI, all of the case..." with ğŸš€
00:42:47	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Reacted to "Idk what right answe..." with â•
00:42:48	CPerezz:	Anything works. Just reach out Jochem me or whatever is easier!
00:42:49	Jen:	Reacted to "FYI, all of the case..." with ğŸš€
00:43:21	Maria Silva:	Replying to "Could change Sstore ..."

Any idea of the speedup we would have if we took it out of the cost formula?
00:43:22	felix (eest):	Reacted to "FYI, all of the ca..." with ğŸš€
00:43:33	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "Idk what right ans..." met â•
00:45:19	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Anything works. Just..." with ğŸ’¯
00:46:55	Karim T.:	@raxhvl if you can check my message on discord I think we found one missing test on Besu related to BAL .
00:48:04	Mario Vega:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-0
00:49:06	Mario Vega:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-0
00:49:20	Justin Traglia:	Hereâ€™s a short recap of our breakout call this week: https://x.com/JustinTraglia/status/1971589863280402721
00:49:26	Karim T.:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..."

We will be able to share a besu image of Besu for BAL
00:50:14	Katya:	Any metrics needed for EPBS?
00:50:29	danceratopz:	Reacted to "Any metrics needed f..." with ğŸ’™
00:50:36	danceratopz:	Reacted to "Hereâ€™s a short recap..." with ğŸ’™
00:50:51	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Any metrics needed f..." with ğŸ’™
