00:06:44	jochem-brouwer:	gm gm
00:06:52	Stefan Starflinger:	gm
00:07:00	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:08:51	Stefan Starflinger:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1878
00:09:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1878#issuecomment-3759492134
00:10:43	spencer-tb:	Lets keep it in then if CLs are happy!
00:10:52	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Lets keep it in then..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:10:53	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Lets keep it in then..." with ğŸ‘
00:11:10	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/11094
00:11:34	Marc:	Reacted to "Lets keep it in thenâ€¦" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¾
00:11:45	Marius van der Wijden:	iirc lightclient was against this PR?
00:12:08	felipe:	Reacted to "Lets keep it in th..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:12:57	Stefan Starflinger:	CL changes required for EIP 7843 https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/pull/8736
00:12:58	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-specs/pull/1401#issuecomment-3759373893
00:13:00	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Context regarding EIP-7778: https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/688075293562503241/1461678093289656524
00:14:43	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Lets keep it in then..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¾
00:15:52	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "CL changes required ..."

Thereâ€™s a specs PR too: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4840
00:17:32	Marius van der Wijden:	I would prefer to change the receipts to add a second field
00:17:44	Francesco:	I think EIP-8037 will also necessitate some change there, since block level accounting diverges from tx level accounting. Would be good to double check that the chosen solution works for it too (e.g. adding a second field would)
00:17:50	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I would prefer to ch..."

replace logsBloom?
00:18:27	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "I think EIP-8037 w..." with ğŸ‘
00:18:30	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I would prefer to ch..."

Since that's not a used field anyway
00:18:32	Francesco:	Replying to "I think EIP-8037 wil..."

(Most likely I think itâ€™s the same exact problem and whichever solution should work for both EIPs, but should just double check)
00:18:35	Guru:	Replying to "I would prefer to ch..."

The way it is currently specd out, I think the proposal is to create a new field
00:18:56	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would prefer to ..."

I also prefer a second field
00:19:05	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "I would prefer to ..."

Over reusing an existing field
00:19:16	Guru:	Reacted to "I also prefer a seco..." with ğŸ‘
00:19:34	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9003
00:19:50	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to I would prefer to ch... with "ğŸ‘"
00:19:50	frangio:	has EIP-8024 already been discussed?
00:20:03	frangio:	Reacted to "nope" with ğŸ‘
00:20:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Ah wait, sorry it has been
00:20:17	Guru:	Replying to "has EIP-8024 already..."

Yes
00:20:29	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I would prefer to ch..." 

 Great, that's how it's speced right now. Sounds like we're good to go ahead with this ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:20:46	Guru:	Reacted to "Great, that's how it..." with ğŸ‘
00:22:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/9003#discussion_r2696677181
00:23:20	frangio:	Replying to "has EIP-8024 alrea..."

does anyone mind summarizing? i joined late and want to make sure there's understanding that we wouldn't merge the currently open PR
00:24:25	frangio:	Replying to "has EIP-8024 alrea..."

that would be my preference anyway
00:24:47	Jonny Rhea:	Replying to "has EIP-8024 already..."

I believe it was decided to not go with the push postfix.
00:24:59	frangio:	Reacted to "I believe it was d..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:17	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1878#issuecomment-3759492134
00:26:14	Potuz:	Re: ePBS, it looks like the spec is finally frozen in what spectest vectors are concerned at least. We are now actively merging on Prysm's develop branch. Terence has about 9 PRs open that are being reviewed and they should all be merged in the next 2/3 days. Not sure about dates for kurtosis runs yet.
00:26:22	Åukasz Rozmej:	7708 now behaves same as in eth_simulate?
00:26:38	Barnabas:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks l..."

sounds like kurtosis runs are also scheduled for wednesday then ğŸ˜„
00:26:45	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks..."

What are the final timings?
00:26:58	Potuz:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks l..."

what part of "not sure..." wasn't clear :)
00:27:21	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks l..."

Yup. We could include the following fix into the devnet-0 specs, but it shouldnâ€™t be necessary since weâ€™re not testing builders on devnet-0.

Reserve space for one validator sweep withdrawal: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4832
00:27:28	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks..."

I mean for the slot
00:27:52	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks..."

attestation timeline, ptc deadline etc
00:27:55	Barnabas:	Replying to "Re: ePBS, it looks l..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/master/configs/mainnet.yaml#L102-L110
00:27:57	Stefan Starflinger:	EIP-8024 moved to devnet-3

EIP-7843 included in devnet-2
EIP-7778 included in devnet-2
EIP-7708 included in devnet-2
00:28:10	Barnabas:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-2
00:28:24	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to EIP-8024 moved to de... with "ğŸ‘"
00:28:30	Guru:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:47	Jen:	Reacted to "EIP-8024 moved to de..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:57	felix (eest):	Reacted to "EIP-8024 moved to ..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:04	Jen:	Reacted to "https://notes.ethere..." with ğŸ‘
00:29:19	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "EIP-8024 moved to de..." with ğŸ‘
00:30:48	Mario Vega:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

EIP-8024 was completely moved or only the PR? I understood that only the changes were pushed but not sure
00:30:55	Justin Traglia:	Variable PTC deadline: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4843
00:31:03	Jonny Rhea:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

@Mario Vega thatâ€™s what I thought too
00:31:26	Barnabas:	these are all 1-3 lines changes in the config.yaml right?
00:31:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	+1 to the idea of a variable PTC deadline
00:31:35	Francesco:	Reacted to "these are all 1-3 li..." with ğŸ‘
00:31:44	Dustin:	Replying to "these are all 1-3 ..."

not variable PTC
00:31:55	Ansgar Dietrichs:	also +1 to Potuzâ€™ comments on making these timings dependent on real world data
00:32:01	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "also +1 to Potuzâ€™ co..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:16	spencer-tb:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

I think the PR!
00:32:50	Stefan Starflinger:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

I understood that the whole EIP was moved to devnet-3
00:33:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

Just PR
00:33:06	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

EIP is included
00:33:34	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "EIP is included" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:33:49	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "also +1 to Potuzâ€™ co..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:18	Potuz:	11 days? no way for Prysm
00:34:32	Jonny Rhea:	Replying to "EIP-8024 moved to de..."

Okay to clarifyâ€¦we are not going with the push postfix on devnet2, but might be considered for devnet3?  Cc @frangio
00:34:32	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	I donâ€™t think we can, too
00:34:37	Dustin:	and if they're "farthest ahead"...
00:34:53	Barnabas:	prysm should be the farthest ahead
00:35:07	Dustin:	the whole thing is Prysm's creation
00:35:09	Potuz:	I don't think so, I suspect Teku is way before
00:36:13	Dustin:	does that introduce more complexity though?
00:36:23	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "does that introduce ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:23	Matthew Keil:	Sadly I think It does
00:36:29	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "does that introduce ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:46	nflaig:	Reacted to "does that introduce ..." with ğŸ‘
00:36:53	Barnabas:	we could limit the scope for devnet 0
00:36:57	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "EIP is included" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:37:24	Dustin:	the PTC deadline etc still creates more than 3 intervals
00:37:31	Parithosh Jayanthi:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-0
00:37:48	frangio:	personally i feel relatively strongly against this PR now. i'm writing down my reasoning
00:38:06	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "personally i feel re..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:38:30	felix (eest):	Reacted to "EIP is included" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:38:45	Jonny Rhea:	Reacted to "personally i feel re..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:38:50	Guru:	Reacted to "EIP is included" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:38:59	Jonny Rhea:	Reacted to "EIP is included" with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:39:08	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "personally i feel re..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:39:25	Marius van der Wijden:	8037 explainer: https://notes.ethereum.org/@MariusVanDerWijden/SJD3CGdSbx
Clarification to the eip: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/11107
00:41:20	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Unmuted but we canâ€™t hear you
00:41:24	felix (eest):	maybe just VERY quiet
00:41:27	Marius van der Wijden:	1 sec
00:41:29	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "maybe just VERY quie..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "maybe just VERY quie..." with ğŸ˜­
00:41:32	Barnabas:	Reacted to "maybe just VERY quie..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:33	Potuz:	@Justin TragliaÂ Where/when can we make a decision on 4826 and 4817? I'd like a version of both be merged as soon as possible. Same for 4843 although the mechanism should be changed IMO to be on the validator.md file instead of a helper building the attestation. I think we should decide on those three soon and this call will not work. Can we set either a sync time on Discord or just decide there?
00:41:33	Parithosh Jayanthi:	micDAO
00:41:35	Marcin Sobczak:	Reacted to "maybe just VERY quie..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:36	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "maybe just VERY quie..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:37	Marc:	Reacted to "maybe just VERY quieâ€¦" with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:38	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "micDAO" met ğŸ˜‚
00:41:40	Barnabas:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:41	nixo:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:41:41	butta:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:42	butta:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:41:43	jochem-brouwer:	Heeft gereageerd op "micDAO" met ğŸ¤
00:41:46	felix (eest):	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:41:46	felix (eest):	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:47	Satyajit:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:41:49	felipe:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:41:49	butta:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ™ï¸
00:41:49	felipe:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:41:51	felipe:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ™ï¸
00:41:54	nixo:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ™ï¸
00:41:54	Bhargava:	Reacted to micDAO with "ğŸ¤"
00:41:55	nixo:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:42:01	CPerezz:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:42:02	CPerezz:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:42:03	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:42:13	marek:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ¤
00:42:15	Barnabas:	Replying to "micDAO"

we should launch a fundraiser for Marius to get him a new laptop/mic.
00:42:22	Francesco:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

Fwiw I am happy to revert having the helper if thatâ€™s a biocker
00:42:25	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:26	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:27	felipe:	Reacted to "we should launch a..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:27	marek:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:28	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:31	butta:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:48	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜†
00:42:50	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "micDAO" with ğŸ˜‚
00:42:53	felix (eest):	Reacted to "we should launch a..." with ğŸ˜†
00:43:02	Barnabas:	Replying to "micDAO"

we should launch a fundraiser to swap out Marius for a better/more technical Marius
00:43:05	Ansgar Dietrichs:	just to clarify, I might have said â€œseparate metering for contract deploymentsâ€ - but I meant â€œseparate metering for all state growth operations, specifically to keep contract deployments possibleâ€
00:43:07	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:43:09	Potuz:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

I think it makes the DA bit a bit complicated, we can merge as-is, and then deal with the bit later, but I'm pretty sure that we will need to remove the helper when we do so
00:43:13	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "just to clarify, I m..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:16	mhaas.eth:	Reacted to "just to clarify, I..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:17	Jonny Rhea:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:43:19	butta:	Replying to "micDAO"

nobody told me you are good with jokes, barnabas
00:43:21	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to we should launch a f... with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:43:24	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "nobody told me you a..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:43:33	Potuz:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

I would rather include these changes earlier than later so that we can have some form of testing of the logic early enough.
00:44:00	nixo:	Reacted to "nobody told me you a..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:01	Åukasz Rozmej:	One thing from me  TARGET_STATE_GROWTH_PER_YEAR  should be a BPO parameter, so we can easily adjust it.
00:44:02	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "micDAO"

Wasting his talents by having him lift things at panda HQ
00:44:10	nixo:	Reacted to "Wasting his talents ..." with ğŸ¼
00:44:11	butta:	Reacted to "Wasting his talents ..." with ğŸ¥¸
00:44:18	nixo:	Reacted to "we should launch a f..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:44:23	Potuz:	Reacted to "One thing from me  T..." with ğŸ‘
00:44:41	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

Yeah this call doesnâ€™t feel like the appropriate place to discuss these in detail. I would prefer to discuss (async) these in threads on discord, come to consensus there, and then make the final call here.
00:44:49	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Yeah this call doesn..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:44:55	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "One thing from me  T..."

In this case we should remove the scaling with the gas limit
00:45:03	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "One thing from me  T..."

This would simplify a lot of things
00:45:20	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "One thing from me  T..." with ğŸ‘
00:45:29	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "One thing from me  T..."

SGPO
00:45:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	any single tx can never be heavier to execute than the 16M limit. so I donâ€™t think this should be a regression
00:45:35	Potuz:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

That works for me, just that Julian's PR has been up for a while. He mentioned he will have some numbers to have a better behaved constant (between 0 and the current 18 days)
00:46:14	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	As I understood it, it wouldn't worsen execution parallelization in the worst-case. Instead of 4 max-size txs writing new state, you could only have one in a block.
00:46:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "As I understood it, ..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:48	Ben Adams:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

wouldn't that worsen it? ğŸ˜…
00:46:50	Francesco:	As mentioned in discord, there is no way to â€œparallelize state growthâ€. We have the tx gas limit because we can parallelize compute etcâ€¦ but we just canâ€™t do that with â€œstate creation"
00:46:54	Francesco:	Reacted to "As I understood it, ..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:10	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

I feel like 4817 (onboard builders at the fork) could be merged now. Could we make a decision on this here today?
00:47:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

worsen it in what way? the block costs as much as a full block otherwise, but is as fast to execute as a single 16M tx
00:47:22	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

thatâ€™s fine
00:47:25	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "That works for me, j..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:26	Anders Elowsson:	Replying to "As mentioned in disc..."

..and donâ€™t need to?
00:47:36	Francesco:	Reacted to "worsen it in what wa..." with ğŸ‘
00:47:41	Ben Adams:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

min tx count before is 3.75; after is 1
00:47:52	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

but what is that min tx count useful for?
00:47:54	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Min tx count is not a useful thing to care about in itself
00:48:17	Åukasz Rozmej:	Replying to "One thing from me  T..."

hmâ€¦ disagree
00:48:26	Ben Adams:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

means paralellization of 1 rather than 4
00:48:29	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

What we care about is: if a block consumes n x 16.7M regular gas, it has to have at least n txs
00:48:31	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "One thing from me  T..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:54	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

means paralellization of 1 rather than 4

It doesnâ€™t matter, because in that case the tx is still only 16.7Mgas
00:49:02	Ameziane Hamlat:	Transaction state creation limit should go in hand with gas limit ğŸ‘Œ
00:49:45	Potuz:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

I'm happy to merge that, couldn't find a bug yet
00:50:16	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

Cool, please bring it up at the end of the call.
00:50:26	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

If thereâ€™s time.
00:51:42	Potuz:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

cc @Parithosh JayanthiÂ 
00:51:45	CPerezz:	But can a corner case that might not happen (and has no strong issues/concern) kill the entire EIP which is beneficial ?
00:51:47	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "cc @Parithosh Jayant..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:52:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

Bharath has a topic, thatâ€™s the only other one left
00:52:17	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

So there might be time depending on how long he takes
00:52:27	CPerezz:	Is there any real alternative besides just do nothing and hope for the best?
00:52:30	Marius van der Wijden:	Feels like the changes to the other eips that we are still discussing are in similar size as what we expect here
00:52:36	Ben Adams:	Just highlighting is weird ux :)
00:52:38	Bharath:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

It is on absorbing MEV-Boost into clients. I am happy to discuss that with folks async
00:52:52	Marius van der Wijden:	E.g. the receipts changes and push changes
00:53:15	Potuz:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

it's fine to have that one here and the PR on Discord, doesn't look like there's gonna be time for either anyway :)
00:53:19	butta:	thx markus!
00:53:21	Bharath:	Replying to "@Justin TragliaÂ Wher..."

Potuz and Tersec have given feedback on my PR and I can discuss it async and we can donâ€™t have to drag the call for this. We can pick it up in ACDC if required
00:53:26	Marius van der Wijden:	Marcus is from ethOS
00:53:33	Ben Adams:	Will need to change headers and receipts also for this EIP to surface the stategas use
00:54:20	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Will need to change ..." 

 Receipts yes, header not really
00:54:28	Francesco:	If a smart contract would break because of dynamic cost, it will break with repricings
00:54:36	mhaas.eth:	Reacted to "Marcus is from eth..." with â¤ï¸
00:54:39	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "If a smart contract ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:54:48	Marius van der Wijden:	This would mean we would need to hard fork a few times a year
00:55:30	Francesco:	Replying to "Will need to change ..."

What would you need to add to the header? Imo we should change gasUsed to be max(regularGas, stateGas) (what the EIP calls gasMetered)
00:55:59	Francesco:	Replying to "Will need to change ..."

I implemented the EIP in the execution-specs and didnâ€™t really see a reason to change the header
00:56:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	one question then: if we go ahead with CFI today, would people prefer to iterate purely async, or would there be use in a breakout call on this?
00:56:20	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Will need to change ..."

information loss just storing max()
00:57:00	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "one question then: i..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:12	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "one question then: i..." 

 Breakout rooms continue until morale improves
00:57:18	Ben Adams:	Replying to "one question then: i..."

Ok to CFI
00:57:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to one question then: i... with "ğŸ‘"
00:57:32	Ameziane Hamlat:	Letâ€™s CFI it and discuss it more later
00:57:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Breakout rooms conti..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:39	nixo:	Reacted to "Breakout rooms conti..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:56	Francesco:	Breakout call seems useful, thereâ€™s some details to discuss (e.g. exact way to split up the prices, whether there should be a header change, receiptsâ€¦)
00:58:02	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Breakout call seems ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:58:04	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "Breakout call seems ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:58:09	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Breakout call seems ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:58:14	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Letâ€™s CFI it and dis... with "ğŸ‘"
00:58:19	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to Breakout call seems ... with "ğŸ’¯"
00:58:35	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Breakout call seems ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:58:38	Anders Elowsson:	Letâ€™s keep an open mind on SGPO hardforks also. It can be very useful
00:58:49	Anders Elowsson:	Reacted to "Breakout call seems ..." with ğŸ’¯
00:59:00	felipe:	Reacted to "Breakout rooms con..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:08	Francesco:	final_final_v2_definitive
00:59:10	Jen:	Reacted to "Breakout call seems ..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:59:15	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_defin..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:16	nixo:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_defin..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:17	felix (eest):	Reacted to "final_final_v2_def..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:20	frangio:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_def..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:21	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_defin..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:26	Leo:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_def..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:59:39	felipe:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_def..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:00:04	Satyajit:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_def..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:00:21	Dustin:	the basic question I'd have is, is this really a "spec" thing?
01:00:33	Dustin:	i.e. multiplexing setup
01:00:38	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "final_final_v2_defin..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:01:08	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "Ok to CFI" with ğŸ‰
01:01:28	Barnabas:	I basically want to yeet mev boost if we can
01:01:40	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I basically want to ..." with ğŸ‘
01:01:46	Dustin:	and I'd wonder scope-wise, e.g. extend to https://www.commit-boost.org/ ?
01:02:08	Dustin:	CL clients implement the builder API now
01:02:11	CPerezz:	Reacted to "Just highlighting is..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:13	Dustin:	mev-boost is a bulider-API proxy
01:02:24	Dustin:	that exists today
01:02:25	Dustin:	right now
01:02:27	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

But it is taking the whole block, so no place to other transactions to be included in that block
01:03:05	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Even with the tx gas limit, I can simply buy out all gas in the block. Why does it matter if I do it with one tx or 4?
01:03:23	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Transaction parallelisation
01:05:00	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Can you say exactly what your concern is with that? The block weâ€™re talking about has a single tx but it consumes only 16.7Mgas, we donâ€™t need to parallelize anything
01:05:06	Ben Adams:	BALs can do the internal tx IO parallelised so isn't such a problem (for a validator) and the builder who builds the BAL chooses to put it in (so additional effort in building the BAL is on them)
01:05:17	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Even with the tx gas limit, I can simply buy out all gas in the block. Why does it matter if I do it with one tx or 4?

Yes, but you cannot guarantee that youâ€™re going to use the whole block gas limit because transactions can go in different blocks, where with one transaction, youâ€™re sure to use the whole gas of 1 block
01:05:20	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Itâ€™s the same as a post-BAL block that only contains a single tx because the builder wants it so
01:06:19	Potuz:	I completely agree, we just need to specify the builder API and the only change is that we now can connect to many endpoints instead of one and it should not be speced how to connect to many endpoints
01:07:09	Potuz:	@DustinÂ a hard request from the community was to standardize client flags so that operators can set the same flags across different clients
01:07:13	Potuz:	things like min-bid, etc
01:07:23	Potuz:	those things should be standardized on the builder API
01:07:36	Ameziane Hamlat:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Thatâ€™s actually for me what shouldnâ€™t happen, having 1 tx consuming the whole block.
01:07:42	Ben Adams:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Also you can put a whole bunch of additional txs in that only update state; even if all the state growth gas has been used
01:07:51	Francesco:	Reacted to "Also you can put a w..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:19	Dustin:	Replying to "those things shoul..."

the current approach ties this in to the builder proxy? i.e. the config gets unified there
01:08:22	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Thatâ€™s actually for me what shouldnâ€™t happen, having 1 tx consuming the whole block.

Why? It was like this until Fusaka, and itâ€™s not why we introduced the tx gas limit. Plus, builders can always just buy out a whole block
01:08:33	Dustin:	Replying to "those things shoul..."

(whether that proxy is named mev-boost or commit boost)
01:08:40	Justin Traglia:	Yeah weâ€™ll talk on discord
01:08:48	Francesco:	Replying to "As I understood it, ..."

Anyway, do we agree that the concern isnâ€™t about parallelization?
01:08:51	Bharath:	Replying to "those things should ..."

Agreed that builder muxing is mostly implementation details. We probably want to standardize params like min-bid, bid-boost flags etc. Most of the PR specifies params like min-bid, bid-boost, max-trusted-bid etc
01:08:52	Justin Traglia:	Bye everyone!
