00:01:42	Lean F | Lambda:	Hi
00:04:34	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:04:43	kev:	Reacted to "Gm" with ğŸ‘‹
00:04:47	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "Gm" with ğŸ‘‹
00:05:02	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Gm" with ğŸ‘‹
00:05:13	Potuz:	GM
00:05:35	stokes:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1614
00:08:28	Justin Traglia:	When we decide to shutdown devnet-2, we should try to kill it first.
00:08:34	Potuz:	Reacted to "When we decide to sh..." with ğŸ‘
00:08:55	Potuz:	Replying to "When we decide to sh..."

Could we try disabling tx3 txs from the mempool?
00:10:06	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Could we try disabli..." with ğŸ‘€
00:10:45	Parithosh Jayanthi:	This is per: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7870
00:10:54	Potuz:	I think itâ€™s doable, with the caveat that mainnet releases shouldnâ€™t be expected by end of August but rather 1month before mainnet right?
00:11:00	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s doable,..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:12:16	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s doable,..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
00:12:40	Barnabas:	Replying to "This is per: https:/..."

I think we should also update 7870 to require gigabit for supernodes
00:13:09	Ben Adams:	ğŸ¿
00:13:17	Potuz:	Replying to "This is per: https:/..."

Goodbye home CSM and RP operators
00:13:29	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:13:32	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:13:51	Barnabas:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:13:52	Potuz:	Replying to "This is per: https:/..."

I would advocate then to raise the limit of keys that are needed to become a supernode
00:14:12	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:14:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:14:25	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:17:36	ethDreamer (Mark):	FOUR SECONDS for attestation propagation and aggregation - this is what the PTC enables you to parallelize with block and blob broadcast and execution
00:18:53	Potuz:	From the charts I gather US may be very much skewed since they tighten maximally for timing games https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/874767108809031740/1394340226238775337 

Whatâ€™s 0.4 seconds for US is 1.6 seconds for Titan
00:19:21	RaÃºl Kripalani:	do we know how connected relays are to the mesh? we assume they're hyperconnected
00:19:23	Radek:	go Poland
00:19:28	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..."

on a 6s slot time?
00:19:32	Potuz:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:34	Bastin:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:37	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:41	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ¥Ÿ
00:19:41	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:43	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..."

Thatâ€™s independent of slot time
00:19:44	Anna Thieser:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ˜‚
00:19:49	Francesco:	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..."

The PTC votes also need to propagate, so thatâ€™s not entirely true
00:19:53	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "go Poland" with ğŸ˜‚
00:20:08	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "The PTC votes also n..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:05	Potuz:	This are strictly single attestations?
00:21:15	Dustin:	p95 isn't enough
00:21:22	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Thatâ€™s independent o..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:27	Potuz:	From just 0 and 1 committees right?
00:21:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to From just 0 and 1 co... with "ğŸ‘"
00:21:35	Dustin:	p95 means risking a block every epoch
00:21:36	Bastin:	Reacted to "From just 0 and 1 ..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:43	soispoke:	Reacted to "From just 0 and 1 co..." with ğŸ‘
00:21:51	Dankrad Feist:	no
00:22:13	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..." 

 it's 95% of attestations. so no
00:22:21	Potuz:	Wait I didnâ€™t understand how 4413ms supports the 6 slot times here?
00:22:26	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..."

not sure thatâ€™s true, but could argue p95 is not enough on different grounds
00:22:29	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

it's als for blocks
00:22:32	stokes:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..."

I assume he means if we try to fit to p95 for blocks
00:22:35	Potuz:	Arenâ€™t we moving the attestation deadline to 3 seconds?
00:22:35	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

yes
00:22:43	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..." 

 yes but we are not doing that
00:22:49	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

yes the presentation does
00:22:54	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

I don't know what "we" are doing
00:22:58	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..." 

 it just measures
00:23:00	Barnabas:	could someone mute caleb please?
00:23:10	Louis:	Reacted to "ğŸ¿" with ğŸ¿
00:23:18	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

ok, well, the slides are about p95 for block distribution aleady being 3s
00:23:27	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

(one dataset)
00:24:01	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..." 

 but this is not stake weighted
00:24:08	Mingfei Zhang:	How many validators are in a committee in the test
00:24:24	Potuz:	Yeah also another bias is that nodes tend to be more stressed at the beginning of the epoch where you should have a higher bias to these missed blocks
00:24:30	Trent:	@Tuyen please stay muted =)
00:24:31	Dankrad Feist:	Replying to "p95 means risking a ..." 

 so it definitely does not mean risking 5% of all slots as you are suggesting
00:24:32	Caleb:	Reacted to Yeah also another bi... with "ğŸ‘"
00:24:37	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

ok
00:24:44	Potuz:	Replying to "How many validators ..."

Active / 32 / 128
00:25:18	Dustin:	Replying to "p95 means risking ..."

it's sampling by nodes-with-valiators only?
00:25:22	Potuz:	Can anyone please tell me how the 4.1 seconds is within the proposal?
00:25:26	Potuz:	This is pre aggregation too
00:25:28	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..."

Wait this isnâ€™t true because I didnâ€™t include aggregate propagation
00:25:29	Potuz:	I am completely lost
00:25:31	Ben Edgington:	Replying to "How many validators ..."

*Active / 32 / 64 (I think)
00:25:40	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..."

@Francesco
00:25:42	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

showing preliminary measurements, wouldnâ€™t say it supports or does not support 6s. also 4413ms is based on current partition and means some clients fire off their attestations at 4s only
00:25:46	Tuyen:	Reacted to "@Tuyen please stay mâ€¦" with ğŸ™
00:25:49	Mikhail Kalinin:	Reacted to "*Active / 32 / 64 (I..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:51	Barnabas:	fusaka-devnet-3 bandwidth rate limiters are now active.

supernodes: 1000Mbps/1000Mbps
fullnodes: 100Mpbs/50Mbps
00:25:57	stokes:	Reacted to "fusaka-devnet-3 band..." with ğŸ‰
00:25:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "fusaka-devnet-3 band..." with ğŸ‰
00:26:02	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "fusaka-devnet-3 band..." with ğŸ‰
00:26:03	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "fusaka-devnet-3 band..." with ğŸ‰
00:26:04	Francesco:	Reacted to "fusaka-devnet-3 band..." with ğŸ‰
00:26:06	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to *Active / 32 / 64 (I... with "ğŸ‘"
00:26:09	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Can anyone please te..."

answered above
00:26:50	Potuz:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

Concentration is not a bias for shorter slot times though
00:26:53	Barnabas:	Do we have a working prototype of any clients of shorter slot times?
00:26:54	Potuz:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

It will be concentrated
00:27:11	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

what do you mean by concentration?
00:27:30	stokes:	Replying to "Do we have a working..."

I think there was a PoC in lighthouse
00:27:33	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..." 

 Attestations are not aggregated neither here. It's looking into attestations in subnets
00:27:36	Potuz:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

Concentration of all attestations being at the same time (because thatâ€™s a bias in this test by looking at missed blocks)
00:27:40	stokes:	Replying to "Do we have a working..."

Also feel like I saw a tweet about a shorter slot testnet
00:27:47	Potuz:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

But on shorter slot times, attestations will be more concentrated than today
00:27:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	The prysm fork doesnâ€™t add the delays now ğŸ˜„
00:28:03	Parithosh Jayanthi:	But yes the community data would have it indeed
00:28:07	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "The prysm fork doesn..." with ğŸ‘
00:28:41	Potuz:	Replying to "Do we have a working..."

Preston may not be here but he has a working Poc now
00:28:55	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "FOUR SECONDS for att..." 

 If a bls verify takes ~1ms, then ptc validation will add some more additional latency
00:28:56	Potuz:	Replying to "Do we have a working..."

Of course without any of the changes that arenâ€™t specified
00:29:21	terence:	Replying to "The prysm fork doesn..."

ahh i see, can you show me the fork, will love to study that
00:29:37	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "Wait I didnâ€™t unders..."

well they have less room to spread around, so we want them to be more concentrated. shorter slots without any other intervention donâ€™t just concentrate attestations by themselves
00:29:59	Francesco:	Replying to "How many validators ..."

In other words itâ€™s about ~500
00:30:05	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "The prysm fork doesn..."

You gotta ask sam ğŸ˜„
00:31:13	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "*Active / 32 / 64 (I..." with ğŸ‘
00:32:48	Potuz:	Propagation of blocks should not affect attestation propagation
00:33:10	Potuz:	They should be independent since they should be latency bound not bandwidth bound
00:33:21	Mikhail Kalinin:	+1 to Mark. We need pipelining and potentially BAL (to speed up the execution) in G* and then introduce block latency reduction in H* with more confidence in it
00:33:23	RaÃºl Kripalani:	libp2p attestation propagation timing from Xatu was incorrect the last time we looked at it
00:33:33	Potuz:	Reacted to "libp2p attestation p..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:34	RaÃºl Kripalani:	due to Hermes backlog / misconfiguration
00:33:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "libp2p attestation p..." with ğŸ‘
00:33:50	Potuz:	@RaÃºl Kripalani do you think there could be p2p changes to improve single attestation propagation?
00:33:51	RaÃºl Kripalani:	so i'd like to dig deeper into the data / methodology
00:34:16	Trent:	This was mentioned on a call yesterday as well - if the 6s slot proposal also includes halving the gas limit to keep throughput stable - this was new to me (though I may be in the minority) and worth surfacing as a key part of the proposal
00:34:17	Potuz:	These numbers are horrible and donâ€™t match up with the ones I had from Terence in my head for the last few months already
00:34:39	Potuz:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

It is assumed, same with issuance
00:34:39	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "@RaÃºl Kripalani do y..."

yeah, i think there's quite a bit of headroom here
00:34:43	Potuz:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

Which hasnâ€™t been spaced yet
00:34:47	Trent:	Reacted to "It is assumed, same ..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:50	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "It is assumed, same ..." with ğŸ‘
00:34:54	Potuz:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

Speced, Hate autocorrection
00:35:01	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "It is assumed, sam..." with ğŸ‘
00:35:15	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "This was mentioned..."

(but gas limit increases would put it at roughly the current time again)
00:35:40	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "These numbers are ho..." 

 Note that it's a long range: beginning of block propagation -> 95% attestations seen. There's much latency in between and not that much happening afterwards.
00:35:41	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

Part of the issue is that there are fixed things in a slot, like the commit-reveal scheme. So itâ€™s not clear to me how linear cuts of different sections are to me with gas limit
00:35:45	Potuz:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

Yeahâ€¦ these numbers presented here are horrible, Iâ€™m hoping itâ€™s a measurement issue and not that reality is this
00:35:53	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Dont we already know that home staker s are probably the ones with the worst internet. Doesn't this mean that most likely, those are the validators most likely will be affected?
00:36:03	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

Like this analysis just ignores the first 1.5 seconds on commit-reveal in PBS
00:36:46	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Speced, Hate autocor..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:36:50	Marius van der Wijden:	Hey we get something for free, thats great!
00:36:50	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Speced, Hate autocor..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:36:57	Potuz:	Reacted to "Hey we get something..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:01	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Hey we get something..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:02	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "Speced, Hate autocor..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:03	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Hey we get something..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:03	soispoke:	Reacted to "Hey we get something..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:04	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Hey we get something..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:07	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Hey we get something..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:37:10	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "Hey we get something..."

Actually youâ€™re giving it away for free to us :p
00:37:11	Francesco:	Replying to "Hey we get something..."

Bad name, you actually pay for it
00:37:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Bad name, you actual..." with ğŸ‘
00:37:25	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

you can extrapolate some results for the ePBS world, after 1.5s youâ€™d have both the exec payload propagating + blobs and the attestations etc. mixed effects then, attestations are not in the â€œhot pathâ€ but they may compete for bandwidth more than today
00:37:28	Bruno Mazorra:	Replying to "Hey we get something..."

Is a sunk cost
00:37:29	Alexey:	Reacted to "fusaka-devnet-3 band..." with ğŸ‰
00:37:30	Trent:	@Gary Schulte please stay muted =) (im only sending these after I mute someone)
00:37:44	Bruno Mazorra:	Replying to "Hey we get something..."

So the option is free
00:37:49	Gary Schulte:	Reacted to "@Gary Schulte please..." with ğŸ˜†
00:38:23	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "yeah, i think there'..." with ğŸ”¥
00:38:28	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "This was mentioned o..."

Agreed. I just think thereâ€™s a lot of layers of nuance. Even like separating ultrasoun-us v.s. ultrasound-eu in the data.
00:38:29	Potuz:	Reacted to "So the option is fre..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:57	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "@Gary Schulte please..." with ğŸ˜†
00:39:12	RaÃºl Kripalani:	ranging from gossipsub parameter fine-tuning  per-topic, transport optimizations, dedicated topology / routing policies for attestations, etc. to more drastic changes
00:39:18	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Agreed. I just think..." with ğŸ’¯
00:39:22	Potuz:	Reacted to "yeah, i think there'..." with ğŸ”¥
00:39:35	Sophia Gold:	EL only DE is pipelining and doesn't have this problem, right?
00:39:47	Ansgar Dietrichs:	This is a fundamental problem with the propagation window, even today: between winning the auction and propagation finishing, you can always abort propagation (but still pay the proposer).

So the thing is just that we now want to use a larger portion of the slot for propagation, so the problem gets worse.

also means best solution is shorter slot times
00:39:51	Potuz:	Replying to "@RaÃºl Kripalani do y..."

I think this is becoming a bottleneck soon if these numbers are right
00:39:54	ethDreamer (Mark):	Any proposal where there is a time delta between transaction selection and the deadline for all components of the block must be available will be vulnerable to this option problem
00:40:42	RaÃºl Kripalani:	the network load placed by attestations is radically different to everything else (many tiny fragments in a bursty way), so i'm sure we're incurring more overhead than we should (e.g. we could even batch attestations to amortize validation time and MTU utilization)
00:40:42	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Any proposal where t..." 

 It's more every proposal that allows post-attestation payload invalidation
00:40:50	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "It's more every pr..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:02	Potuz:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

The particular problem though according to the computation by Christoph et. al. is proportional to MEV and therefore to the slot time so making the slot shorter doesnâ€™t substantially help
00:41:05	Francesco:	Replying to "@RaÃºl Kripalani do y..."

Another dumb thing is, I donâ€™t think the current number of committees is optimal (more committees => each single attestation topic is smaller but the global aggregates topic has more messages)
00:41:09	Potuz:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

Ahh what he is saying now
00:41:27	RaÃºl Kripalani:	i.e. if we decouple "unit of work" from "message/attestation", i think several clever optimizations open up
00:41:42	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Any proposal where t..."

Wait what? That doesâ€™t make sense. You canâ€™t retroactively invalidate a payload if it was valid from the start and all components are available
00:41:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

ah, hm right
00:41:59	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Any proposal where t..."

If it was invalid from the start, you have no option
00:42:09	Hasu:	btw the post for reading along https://collective.flashbots.net/t/the-free-option-problem-in-epbs/5115
00:42:18	Potuz:	Reacted to "btw the post for rea..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:20	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

right but all else equal shorter slot times help no? youâ€™d have half the MEV per slot, but twice the slots?
00:42:25	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Any proposal where t..." 

 Here you "invalidate" your payload by not publishing >50% of the blobs
00:42:38	Potuz:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

No, this is explicitly the statement they make
00:42:46	Potuz:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

Itâ€™s the time relative to the slot
00:42:55	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Any proposal where t..."

I said â€œdeadline where all components are availableâ€
00:42:56	Marius van der Wijden:	So we need to make the penalties for builders more severe?
00:43:00	Francesco:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

Yes but fwiw this not a CL-DE problem either, itâ€™s specifically a commit/reveal problem. It is in principle possible to do CL-DE with full pipelining (including PTC) but no commit/reveal, but what has to be given up for that is trustless payments (not clear how to do them without commit/reveal)
00:43:13	Trent:	Reacted to "btw the post for rea..." with ğŸ‘
00:43:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Any proposal where t..." 

 So, you publish your valid el payload early and the whole el payload turns "invalid" at the ptc deadline if the blobs are not revealed
00:43:40	RaÃºl Kripalani:	do we think having a confident answer here is blocking us from choosing the headliner? (ie. what priority should we (p2p) give to this?)
00:44:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

right, at least with perfect slot usage, shorter slot times would no longer help.

currently they would help, because we canâ€™t use full slot for propagation, so ratio gets better
00:44:19	Potuz:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

Not a commit reveal for the payload but for blobs is the main issue. ePBS with a single short PTC deadline doesnâ€™t have this problem as per these guys computations
00:44:27	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Replying to "These numbers are ho..."

they're probably affected by the same Hermes issue as my attestation CDF chart from Berlinterop
00:44:31	Potuz:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

And itâ€™s still commit-reveal
00:44:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

which also means that this effect is directly proportional to throughput - we can make it better by artificially throttling throughput
00:44:39	Potuz:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

But loses blob propagation scaling
00:44:40	Francesco:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

I think thereâ€™s a fundamental difference between having commit/reveal and not having it, because having commit/reveal means that the entire allocated propagation window fuels the optionâ€™s value, whereas without commit/reveal the end of the auction is close to the latest time when you can propagate the data
00:44:51	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Any proposal where t..."

I guess if you include publishing early.. but why would you do that?
00:44:57	Potuz:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

Iâ€™m replying to this in a different thread so Iâ€™ll copy there
00:45:27	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Any proposal where t..."

You created an option you already had by publishing on time. Itâ€™s more expensive publish early and waste the block rather than just publishing on time
00:45:38	Potuz:	Replying to "This is a fundamenta..."

Not a commit reveal for the payload but for blobs is the main issue. ePBS with a single short PTC deadline doesnâ€™t have this problem as per these guys computations
And itâ€™s still commit-reveal
But loses blob propagation scaling
00:45:39	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s the time relati..." with ğŸ‘
00:46:32	NC:	If this option is valuable, wouldnâ€™t it be reflected in the bid price? ie. builders are willing to pay a premium for it and they will lose more when they decide to withhold
00:46:36	soispoke:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

Itâ€™s not clear yet we would need to do that I think it all depends on results from empirical data. If what builders bid (and always lose) is a lot greater than their profits then the dominant strategy is already to reveal and not withhold the block: https://collective.flashbots.net/t/the-free-option-problem-in-epbs/5115/9?u=soispoke
00:46:59	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

Yes a penalty for not revealing is a trivial way to negate this attack
00:47:19	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "If this option is va..."

Yes. But that also makes their bids more competitive and creates this vicious circle where proposer blacklisting will never make sense.
00:47:21	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

But the real problem is if solo stakers build off-chain infrastructure
00:47:22	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipe..."

Tbh I don't think trustless payments give us much. The benefits of ePBS are pipelining
00:47:23	stokes:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

Couldnâ€™t the PTC collude to grief the builder then?
00:47:34	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Tbh I don't think tr... with "ğŸ‘"
00:47:38	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

Good luck getting the PTC to collude
00:47:44	stokes:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

fair
00:47:44	Ansgar Dietrichs:	PTC can already grief builder in existing design, the effect with a penalty would just get worse
00:48:09	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "@RaÃºl Kripalani do y..."

depends what your other priorities are of course ğŸ™‚ but even if we assume we want 6s asap, before or after restructuring, then imo we should be paying attention to these things asap too
00:48:39	Potuz:	Reacted to "depends what your ot..." with ğŸ‘
00:48:46	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

Saying trustless payments doesnâ€™t give you much just means that you arenâ€™t paying attention to the trends in the MEV ecosystem.
00:48:49	Hasu:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s not clear yet w..." with ğŸ‘
00:49:07	Potuz:	Reacted to "Saying trustless pay..." with â¤ï¸
00:49:12	stokes:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

You mean re: relay centralization?
00:49:21	Francesco:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

It also just means that any network failure can become very costly. Would you build locally if you can lose 1 ETH?
00:49:40	Francesco:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

(And thereâ€™s obviously no way for the network to distinguish between local building and professional building)
00:49:45	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "So we need to make..."

Iiuc the point is that the option is so valuable given high liquidity that the capital requirements to penalize builders for exercising it would not be feasible
00:50:22	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

Yeah usually people were not comfortable with missed slot penalties because of local building
00:50:23	Hasu:	Reacted to "Saying trustless pay..." with â¤ï¸
00:50:25	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

death of minority relays, relays trying to monetize, moving towards sealed bid, vertical integration, etc.
00:50:41	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "Saying trustless pay..." with â¤ï¸
00:50:56	Francesco:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

In the post youâ€™re saying that a sealed bid auction is a good thing. Why are you listing it here as a bad trend?
00:51:20	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

Itâ€™s a bad thing if thereâ€™s a relay in the middle. Because you canâ€™t monitor it.
00:51:30	terence:	Reacted to "Saying trustless pay..." with â¤ï¸
00:51:43	soispoke:	Replying to "So we need to make t..."

Fwiw FOCIL helps relying less on local builders and would be useful if we want to have missed slot penalties
00:51:54	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "EL only DE is pipeli..."

+ encourages vertical integration
00:52:45	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Fwiw FOCIL helps rel..." with ğŸ’¯
00:53:20	ethDreamer (Mark):	Shortening the window just reduces propagation time
00:53:29	ethDreamer (Mark):	So negative impact on scaling
00:53:37	Ansgar Dietrichs:	without new innovations, the free option time window is directly proportional to throughput, no?

so that is a very important downside
00:53:39	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to So negative impact o... with "â•"
00:54:14	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "without new innovati..."

both blob and calldata throughput
00:54:24	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Shortening the window takes pipelining and at some point we are back at attestation deadline = payload availability deadline = blob deadline. Then, we took the pipelining from ePBS.
00:54:34	Potuz:	Yes, the point that this is mostly interesting to searcher-builders without serving other searchers is important to understand perhaps or modeling.
00:54:47	Potuz:	No need for that
00:54:55	Potuz:	You can do a refund to the builder
00:54:56	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Fwiw FOCIL helps rel..." with ğŸ‘
00:54:58	Potuz:	Instead of a penalty
00:55:01	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "Yes, the point that ..."

Or only serving searchers bidding the same direction as them.
00:55:17	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "without new innovati..." 

 Yesh, agree, later deadlines that impact what was attested on impacts how we think about pipelining.
00:55:19	Potuz:	Replying to "Yes, the point that ..."

Exactly, but then searchers would stop sending txs to them
00:55:31	Ben Adams:	Can't do a penality high enough to (that anyone would pay) to cover trading gains?
00:55:37	Potuz:	Replying to "Yes, the point that ..."

The PoF point of view I think itâ€™s important
00:55:37	soispoke:	Replying to "Yes, the point that ..."

I think there is an incentive for non integrated builders to reveal to searchers generally speaking no? If they donâ€™t searchers would shade their bids and builders profit less
00:55:54	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Can't do a penality ..." 

 They are uncapped
00:56:01	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "They are uncapped" with ğŸ‘€
00:56:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	â€œseems like there are potential pathsâ€ - which ones?
00:56:07	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "They are uncapped" with ğŸ‘
00:56:10	Francesco:	Reacted to "â€œseems like there ar..." with ğŸ˜„
00:56:12	Potuz:	Reacted to "â€œseems like there ar..." with ğŸ˜„
00:56:19	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "â€œseems like there ar..." with ğŸ˜„
00:56:24	stokes:	https://blog.sigmaprime.io/glamsterdam-eip7732.html
00:56:30	Christoph Schlegel:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Left as exercise to you Ansgar
00:56:30	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Can't do a penality ..."

then "that anyone would pay"?
00:56:36	Hasu:	Reacted to "Left as exercise to ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:56:38	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

or was that just some optimistic placeholder?

like I am sure we will eventually find solutions, but I didnâ€™t hear any mentioned
00:56:45	DA | Flashbots:	Replying to "Can't do a penality ..."

Iâ€™m curious to how much other builders would stop wanting to include private (mostly based rollup) blobs. Since theyâ€™re already hardly paying for liveness
00:56:51	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Can't do a penality ..."

why would you propose a block if risk is so high?
00:56:53	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "â€œseems like there ar..." with ğŸ˜„
00:56:55	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Left as exercise to ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:00	ethDreamer (Mark):	I just think that proposal is strictly worse
00:57:01	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

I donâ€™t see any solution really itâ€™s fundamental to have the blob deadline late
00:57:06	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I just think that pr..." with ğŸ‘
00:57:12	stokes:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Penalty for builder not revealing
00:57:14	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "I just think that pr..."

It still suffers free option problem
00:57:14	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

This affects APS, mev boost anything
00:57:15	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "Left as exercise to ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

ah, right, penalties are an option.
00:57:26	Bruno Mazorra:	Reacted to "Left as exercise to ..." with ğŸ˜‚
00:57:32	soispoke:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

@stokes missed slot penalties hurt local builders
00:57:52	stokes:	https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/745077610685661265/1397620790798581834
00:57:57	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Instead of penalties (that are hard to do) I think itâ€™s trivial to return a percentage of the bid to the builder when the payload is processed
00:58:00	Francesco:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Seems to me that the realistic choices are:
Accept this problem and move on with 7732 (with current knowledge of the free option problem I find this really uncomfortable)
Remove trustless payments and commit/reveal for now, do everything else that epbs does to keep maximal compatibility with it (maybe we change how things work with blobs later/gain new insights and can revisit)
Go back to some other delayed execution proposal (not sure why)
00:58:17	Lion dapplion:	I think itâ€™s deceiving to force ePBS on the slot restructuring effort. Core devs should be able to signal support to both or either
00:58:26	nixo:	Lido, Flashbots, Snowbridge, & QuickNode also left feedback here: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/soliciting-stakeholder-feedback-on-glamsterdam-headliners/24885
00:58:27	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Wait potuz
00:58:30	Etan (Nimbus):	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s deceivi..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:36	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

What you mean by refund Is what I mean by penalty
00:58:37	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s deceivi..." with ğŸ‘
00:58:41	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Removing trustless payments does not solve this at all
00:58:46	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Of course the penalty isnâ€™t applied when they reveal
00:58:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think itâ€™s deceivi..."

can you clarify?
00:59:02	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Only applied when they donâ€™t reveal
00:59:02	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

Yes I understand, Iâ€™m only talking about implementation details
00:59:32	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s deceivi..." with ğŸ‘
00:59:43	Francesco:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

@Potuz removing commit/reveal does solve the problem afaiu
00:59:44	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

When we schedule the withdrawal we schedule for less than the total amount
00:59:53	Ansgar Dietrichs:	would we then explore having e.g. builder penalties already in the initial ePBS version in Glamsterdam? seems like we could still add that
00:59:53	Barnabas:	so we SFI epbs?
00:59:58	wolovim:	Replying to "Lido, Flashbots, S..."

+ client team perspectives aggregated here: https://forkcast.org/upgrade/glamsterdam#client-team-perspectives
01:00:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "so we SFI epbs?"

well not today though
01:00:11	nixo:	CFI seems more appropriate
01:00:11	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

No, the problem is the difference between payload reveal and blob reveal
01:00:21	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Nothing on the EL SFI'd yet
01:00:21	Francesco:	How can we SFI something where we have such a big unresolved question?
01:00:31	Potuz:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

If you do ePBS as is, with since PTC early it does not have this problem
01:00:46	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Can we DFI anything?
01:00:57	Francesco:	Replying to "â€œseems like there ar..."

If you have a single deadline, it can be late
01:01:02	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Can we DFI anything?" with ğŸ‘
01:01:06	Lion dapplion:	Replying to "I think itâ€™s deceivi..."

The slot restructuring contained on its own can be implemented without rustless payments, letâ€™s call that feature EIP-7732A. Now letâ€™s call the trustless payment feature EIP-7732B which depends on EIP-7732A. Now you can signal support to either EIP-7732A or EIP-7732B.

I wonder if the majority want as headliner EIP-7732A or EIP-7732B
01:01:15	stokes:	Replying to "Can we DFI anything?"

I think we DFI other headliners on the next call
01:01:20	Barnabas:	Replying to "Can we DFI anything?"

dfi - 7942
01:01:30	stokes:	Replying to "How can we SFI somet..."

Yeah, CFI feels better
01:01:52	Tim Beiko:	Maybe we CFI EPBS today, SFI on next call if we still think itâ€™s the right headliner?
01:02:02	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	If we cannot agree on any specific slot restructuring (and do shorter slots instead), we shouldn't SFI it. There's great progress happening around slot restructuring right now and we still need more community input.
01:02:04	Barnabas:	Reacted to "Maybe we CFI EPBS to..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:06	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think basically any CL Glamsterdam headliner choice would have the same free option problem, right? Itâ€™s not specific to ePBS at all.

So say even with 6s slots, we would want to increase the propagation portion of the slot, so same problem
01:02:08	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Maybe we CFI EPBS to... with "ğŸ‘"
01:02:08	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s dece..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:09	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Maybe we CFI EPBS to..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:16	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "Maybe we CFI EPBS to..." with ğŸ‘
01:02:33	Barnabas:	what do we wanna do about FOCIL for glamsterdam?
01:02:53	soispoke:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

Thanks for asking ğŸ™‚
01:02:57	Francesco:	Replying to "I think basically an..."

I donâ€™t see how itâ€™s the same problem with or without commit/reveal (e.g. a single deadline for payload and blobs late in the slot)
01:02:59	stokes:	Replying to "Maybe we CFI EPBS to..."

Yeah I was going to invent a â€œheadliner CFIâ€ as a â€œconditional acknowledgmentâ€ today, but if everyone agrees CFI seems fine
01:03:01	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "I think basically an..." 

 Right but we could still have execution being done after the attestation deadline. But yeah, it limits propagation.
01:03:03	Sophia Gold:	Reacted to "Seems to me that t..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:10	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

I am not yet convinced that combining it with ePBS wouldnâ€™t be insane scope wise
01:03:23	Potuz:	Correctly, it removes bandwidth scaling which is the main thng
01:03:23	stokes:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

Yeah I think its a lot in terms of scope
01:03:25	Francesco:	Replying to "I think basically an..."

With commit/reveal you always have the worst case amount of â€œfree option timeâ€
01:03:36	Bruno Mazorra:	Reacted to "Correctly, it remove..." with ğŸ‘
01:03:39	stokes:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

But also why I donâ€™t want to DFI anything today
01:03:53	stokes:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

I think we should have the convo to have FOCIL in glamsterdam
01:04:04	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

as in, timing needs to be we have the final glamsterdam devnet in february, if we want to ship glamsterdam 6 months after fusaka
01:04:13	Mingfei Zhang:	How about improving the security of the protocol in the headline
01:04:23	Christoph Schlegel:	Yes having PTC deadlines earlier makes it much better
01:04:25	terence:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

why cant we do epbs + focil together?
01:04:51	Potuz:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

Officially I do not want to DFI FOCIL at all
01:05:18	Potuz:	forkcast?
01:05:24	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "forkcast?" with ğŸ‘
01:05:30	nixo:	Lido favored 7886 (delayed exec) first then ePBS. Flashbots BALs, then ePBS
01:05:39	Barnabas:	How do you ask community about something like epbs? 
Asking about 6s slot time is super easy, because everyone can super easily grasp the idea of halving the slot time. While if you know what epbs is, then you are probably a core dev, or should be one.
01:05:40	soispoke:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

Would be good to have clientâ€™s perspective on this tbh, most clients have indicated they would want FOCIL as a stretch goal

Maybe itâ€™s a discussion to have after making a decision about ePBS
01:05:48	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:50	felix (eest):	Reacted to "How do you ask com..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:50	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:53	Mikhail Kalinin:	Replying to "Lido favored 7886 (d..."

BAL is on EL side
01:05:54	Christoph Schlegel:	Reacted to "Itâ€™s the time relati..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:54	Hasu:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:57	soispoke:	I think tier lists on twitter is also biased
01:05:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Lido favored 7886 (d..."

important to note that these are infrastructure providers, so the opposite of users :-)
01:06:00	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "How do you ask com..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:00	Ahmad Bitar | Nethermind:	Reacted to How do you ask commu... with "ğŸ‘"
01:06:01	Ben Edgington:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:07	James He:	Reacted to "I think tier lists o..." with ğŸ’¯
01:06:08	soispoke:	Iâ€™ve seen a lot of FOCIL as top tier on my timeline ğŸ˜ƒ
01:06:14	Lion dapplion:	Authors of EIP-7732 can I create a new EIP that deletes the trustless payment and add you as authors?
01:06:14	mpaulucci | ethrex:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:18	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "I think tier lists o..." with ğŸ’¯
01:06:19	Dustin:	Reacted to "How do you ask com..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:19	nixo:	Replying to "Lido favored 7886 (d..."

ah right, just ePBS then
01:06:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Lido favored 7886 (d..."

still useful to note, but I think we are trying to make Ethereum listen more to users
01:06:21	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think tier lists o..." with ğŸ’¯
01:06:27	Barnabas:	Replying to "I think tier lists o..."

maybe twitter itself is biased? ğŸ˜„
01:06:35	soispoke:	Replying to "I think tier lists o..."

Yeah exactly
01:06:40	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "Iâ€™ve seen a lot of F..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:41	terence:	I dont think we can take it seriously, I've seen ppl put DE and EPBS on the same tier. (S tier)
01:06:54	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "I think tier lists o..." with ğŸ’¯
01:06:55	spencer-tb:	Replying to "I think tier lists o..."

â€œPrepares bots to vote for epbsâ€
01:06:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "How do you ask commu..."

simplest:
shorter slots = latency
ePBS = throughput
01:06:59	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "maybe twitter itself..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:07:03	Potuz:	Replying to "what do we wanna do ..."

Yes, and I think as soon as we manage to get rid of the problem here of deciding the easier will be how to rebase FOCIL
01:07:06	donnoh | L2BEAT:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:07	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:12	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:07:21	Tim Beiko:	We could also CFI a handful of Headliners: EPBS, 6SS, FOCIL?
01:07:29	Caleb:	Reacted to I think tier lists o... with "ğŸ’¯"
01:07:34	bbuchbauer:	X is infested with bots. I don' think relying on it for community input is a good idea
01:07:35	Potuz:	Replying to "How do you ask commu..."

My twitter poll with this exact 2 options had more return than forkcast
01:07:41	Potuz:	Replying to "How do you ask commu..."

ğŸ¤£
01:07:51	Dustin:	Replying to "I think tier lists..."

terence: I'd view that as "slot restructuring"/pipelining/etc generically as being grouped
01:08:01	Dustin:	Replying to "I think tier lists..."

not that they think they'd both happen
01:08:03	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "I think tier lists o..." with ğŸ’¯
01:08:11	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "How do you ask commu..." with ğŸ‘
01:08:11	Barnabas:	Wasnâ€™t one of the pre-requisites of having something CFI-ed is to have at least 1 working prototype implementation?
01:08:12	saen:	gonna be honest I think both proposals made me think we should do both in glamsterdam ğŸ˜
01:08:30	Ansgar Dietrichs:	ePBS improves throughput
6s slots improve latency

Glamsterdam will already have other throughput increases, so to me latency would be more valuable.
01:08:35	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "How do you ask commu..."

ePBS obviously has value to the community, imo it should be a prompt to find out good ways to communicate it, rather than bemoan other proposals are easier to communicate
01:08:36	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t one of the prâ€¦"
Yeah itâ€™s a bit weird but itâ€™s the tool we have
01:08:48	terence:	DE and Epbs are competing proposals though. I'd understand if Epbs + reduce slot time together
01:08:53	Tim Beiko:	To be clear, Iâ€™m saying we should do only one of those 3 ğŸ˜„
01:08:55	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t one of the pr..."

I assume headliners have different rules
01:09:07	stokes:	Reacted to "To be clear, Iâ€™m say..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:17	Tim Beiko:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t one of the prâ€¦"
First time doing this, so yes, we need to figure out the kinks
01:09:19	Barnabas:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t one of the pr..."

I donâ€™t think 6s slot time has any prototypes yet?
01:09:26	ethDreamer (Mark):	Reacted to "gonna be honest I th..." with ğŸ‘
01:09:41	Caleb:	Reacted to How do you ask commu... with "ğŸ‘"
01:09:46	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "gonna be honest I th..."

Iâ€™d be fine SFI ePBS and CFI FOCIL if we can.. or CFI both
01:09:53	Trent:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t one of the pr..."

Did nethermind do some experiments on ePBS + lower slot times
01:09:55	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "To be clear, Iâ€™m say..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:08	Lion dapplion:	6SS conflicts with three slot finality? Sounds like it will further reduce the max count of signers per slot we can support
01:10:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Replying to "Wasnâ€™t one of the pr..."

Yes but they did a fresh network, the hard part is not a new network with lower slot time. Its an existing network that reduces slot time at a fork epoch
01:10:19	Caleb:	Replying to "How do you ask commu..." 

 Exactly
01:10:38	Christoph Schlegel:	Reacted to "Seems to me that the..." with ğŸ‘
01:10:42	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "ePBS obviously has v..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:20	Dustin:	Replying to "I think tier lists..."

right, it's IMO a way of expressing a desire for either of them to happen, not having a strong preference
01:11:20	ethDreamer (Mark):	Thereâ€™s also just the fact that the data we saw today indicated that 6 second slots without pipelining is gonna be a heavy lift - maybe doable but not certain
01:11:30	nixo:	Reacted to "I think tier lists o..." with ğŸ’¯
01:11:52	Francesco:	Reacted to "right, it's IMO a wa..." with ğŸ‘
01:11:53	nixo:	Replying to "I think tier lists o..."

yea i donâ€™t think we should tally these one to one at all
01:12:15	Dustin:	Replying to "Iâ€™ve seen a lot o..."

it's almost like everyone's timelines are different
01:12:47	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Replying to "6SS conflicts with t..."

not clear what we do with it today is indicative of what will constrain 3SF
01:13:03	James He:	It would be very sad if the majority of core devs voiced opinion on the fork headliners, and community overrules based on some arbitrary metric of collection of handpicked twitter posts
01:13:11	bbuchbauer:	Replying to "Iâ€™ve seen a lot of F..."

yea, twitter shouldn't be taken too serious
01:13:18	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "it's almost like eve..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ½
01:13:23	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "It would be very sad..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:25	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Thereâ€™s also just..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:26	Barnabas:	Reacted to "It would be very sad..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:27	Bastin:	Reacted to "It would be very s..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:28	ethDreamer (Mark):	Replying to "Iâ€™ve seen a lot of F..."

I saw this one.. because I just made it.. but I also saw it
01:13:35	Josh Davis:	Reacted to "It would be very sad..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:40	stokes:	Iâ€™d suggest eth-magicians as a â€œrecord of truth"
01:13:53	bbuchbauer:	Reacted to "It would be very sad..." with ğŸ‘
01:13:57	stokes:	So champions should try to get written data there
01:14:00	Potuz:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:04	Trent:	Reacted to "Yes but they did a f..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:06	stokes:	e.g. from various community members
01:14:14	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:20	Dustin:	Reacted to "Thereâ€™s also just..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:26	Dustin:	Reacted to "It would be very s..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:30	Phil Ngo:	Reacted to "It would be very sad..." with ğŸ‘
01:14:54	Barnabas:	we have nodes in 3rd world countries
01:14:59	Barnabas:	with lots of hops
01:15:10	RaÃºl Kripalani:	agree with @Dankrad Feist, we need to dig into the data
01:15:15	soispoke:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

I think making one venue the â€œrecord of truthâ€ is a bit tricky to start with tbh
01:15:15	Potuz:	Fully support investigating these numbers
01:15:20	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Right, but more likely it's slow remote signers and similar
01:15:25	Sam Jernigan:	Reacted to "agree with @Dankrad ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:27	Barnabas:	Reacted to "agree with @Dankrad ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:28	manas:	Reacted to "agree with @Dankra..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:30	Chris Haug:	Reacted to "agree with @Dankrad ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:32	DA | Flashbots:	Reacted to "agree with @Dankrad ..." with ğŸ‘
01:15:38	ethDreamer (Mark):	I donâ€™t see how we can argue we shouldnâ€™t do pipelining without better understood data - and not also argue that we shouldnâ€™t do slot shortening without better data
01:16:18	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think we should get better at making decisions that have immediate impacts.

ePBS is mostly a long term feature. Short term it gives more throughput, but we get that anyway from Glamsterdam.

shorter slots would be a much more noticeable immediate feature for users.
01:16:19	Mikhail Kalinin:	+1 (to Potuz)
01:16:22	Barnabas:	Question is, can we do deep investigation of this data in the next few weeks, in order to have 6s slot time still deliver in reasonable amount of time? Or will it take months of investigation?
01:16:26	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "+1" with ğŸ‘
01:16:31	Marius van der Wijden:	Reacted to "Question is, can w..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:34	Parithosh Jayanthi:	Reacted to "Question is, can we ..." with ğŸ‘
01:16:50	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	my view:
obviously would be best if we had 100% confidence that 6s is a no-brainer technically
numbers today donâ€™t prove unequivocally that itâ€™s impossible however
if we committed to doing 6s for glamsterdam, I believe weâ€™d likely be able to pull it off
ePBS doesnâ€™t give us much more room either, so anyways P1 to understand the data and think about optimisations
01:16:57	Sam Jernigan:	Reacted to "+1 (to Potuz)" with ğŸ‘
01:17:01	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

Itâ€™s hard to aggregate so many different venues. Even eth magicians doesnâ€™t have a canonical thread for this AFAIK, thereâ€™s a few related to Glamsterdam topic
01:17:06	RaÃºl Kripalani:	Reacted to "Question is, can we ..." with ğŸ‘
01:17:07	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

This is false: ePBS makes Fusaka possible right now
01:17:11	Sophia Gold:	Replying to "I think we should ..."

If we don't ship any form of pipelining in Glamsterdam it will set back zkEVMs by a year
01:17:14	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Without it Fusaka is useless
01:17:32	Josh Davis:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

@Phil Ngo https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/soliciting-stakeholder-feedback-on-glamsterdam-headliners/24885
01:17:58	manas:	Reacted to "If we don't ship a..." with ğŸ‘
01:18:14	Potuz:	What are the three EIPs?
01:18:22	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	Reacted to "Without it Fusaka is..." with ğŸ¤”
01:18:28	Katya Riazantseva:	7805
01:18:29	soispoke:	7805
01:18:36	nixo:	again pushing here for community input: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/soliciting-stakeholder-feedback-on-glamsterdam-headliners/24885 

also redirects from http://forkcast.org/feedback
01:18:41	Potuz:	7886 is not 6 seconds slots right?
01:18:46	Dustin:	thats  DE
01:18:49	soispoke:	Replying to "7886 is not 6 second..."

Thatâ€™s DE
01:18:53	Phil Ngo:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

So not the meta thread anymore
01:18:57	BarnabÃ© Monnot:	7782
01:19:02	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

wait whatâ€™s the fusaka argument?
01:19:27	nixo:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

that thread is highly discussed based, looking to standardize opinions in some format
01:19:29	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Fusaka sets the ground to increase blob count substantially, but it canâ€™t achieve much with 2 seconds to broadcast
01:19:42	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

With ePBS you multiply this by 4-5
01:19:52	nixo:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

it just makes it clearer to sort through
01:20:02	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Actually scaling immediately giving infinite gas to rollups (and also allowing late execution)
01:20:08	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

This impacts users immediately
01:20:26	Justin Traglia:	Etanâ€™s PR: https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4445
01:20:31	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

any version of Glamsterdam would increase the propagation ratio of the slot
01:20:33	Francesco:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Not with the second deadline shortly after the attestation deadline ğŸ˜„
01:20:33	Lion dapplion:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

*with payload decoupling
01:20:51	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Sure, I am advocating for the scaling version
01:21:06	Lion dapplion:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Such version doesnâ€™t exist yet right?
01:21:12	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

what?
01:21:13	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

ePBS does add delayed execution over pure slot restructuring, but that only helps to further scale execution, not propagation
01:21:33	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

Yes it scales propagation more than execution!
01:21:43	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

The deadlines are about 4 seconds for the payload and 10 for the blobs
01:21:47	Barnabas:	I think we need to find a better way to handle feature forks
01:22:07	Trent:	Replying to "Iâ€™d suggest eth-magi..."

FWIW I donâ€™t see the problem with pushing people to collect responses in a single venue
01:22:11	Potuz:	Replying to "I think we should ge..."

This was the whole point of the early discussion on free options
01:23:05	Etan (Nimbus):	Reacted to "I think we need to f..." with ğŸ˜ƒ
