00:11:20	Mario Vega:	Agenda: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1882
00:12:00	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/releases/tag/bal%40v4.0.0
00:13:15	Mario Vega:	Comment by Stefan: https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1882#issuecomment-3798678466
00:13:23	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Comment by Stefan: h..." with â¤ï¸
00:17:20	Stefan Starflinger:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/731
00:17:25	Barnabas:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-2
00:17:37	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://notes.ethere..."

spec sheet for all the EIPs that we are talking about
00:17:50	Stefan Starflinger:	we have lodestar and lighthouse CLs now
00:17:58	Stefan Starflinger:	I'm not sure about lighthouse internals regarding this
00:18:30	Stefan Starflinger:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

would be good to have this merged
00:18:44	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1882#issuecomment-3798678466
00:19:58	Barnabas:	there are 4 EIPs not 3 Marius
00:20:13	Stefan Starflinger:	5 with BAL
00:20:35	Marius van der Wijden:	Oh we might not have the receipt one
00:20:52	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Oh we might not have..." 

 7778?
00:21:10	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "Oh we might not have..." 

 If so, the receipt field may be removed anyway
00:25:01	Barnabas:	wednesday last week lol
00:25:18	Åukasz Rozmej:	we can start devnet with 3-4 clents
00:25:28	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to wednesday last week ... with "ğŸ˜‚"
00:25:28	Åukasz Rozmej:	Reacted to "wednesday last week ..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:28	Barnabas:	Reacted to "we can start devnet ..." with ğŸ‘
00:25:52	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "wednesday last week ..." with ğŸ˜¿
00:25:52	Åukasz Rozmej:	yeah we need to verify on eth tests
00:26:05	felix (eest):	Reacted to "wednesday last wee..." with ğŸ˜¿
00:26:27	Stefan Starflinger:	Since the full suite takes too long to run daily, we have created a bal-quick hive suite with only the new EIPs https://hive.ethpandaops.io/#/group/bal-quick
00:26:48	Stefan Starflinger:	I've switched the bal hive tests to manual and the bal-quick to daily
00:27:17	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "wednesday last week ..." with ğŸ¥¹
00:27:32	Marius van der Wijden:	Replying to "Oh we might not have..." 

 7708
00:28:10	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "wednesday last week ..." with ğŸ˜¿
00:29:00	Stefan Starflinger:	sounds good
00:30:16	Dragan Rakita:	What is better for protocol?
00:30:28	felipe:	Reacted to "What is better for..." with â•
00:30:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "What is better for p..." with â˜ğŸ¼
00:30:48	CPerezz:	Reacted to "What is better for p..." with â˜ğŸ¼
00:30:49	CPerezz:	Reacted to "What is better for p..." with â•
00:30:50	Jen:	Reacted to "What is better for p..." with â•
00:31:16	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "What is better for p..." with â•
00:31:27	felipe:	Replying to "What is better for..."

Yeah I'm more interested in the right answer than what is easier to implement
00:31:57	Stefan Starflinger:	We whould have 3 clients with 7778 ready without changes to the spec then?
00:34:17	Dragan Rakita:	If this is true (you canâ€™t get this info unless re execute), than storing it makes sense.
00:37:20	Barnabas:	we should make a decision today imo
00:37:34	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "we should make a dec..." with â•
00:37:37	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "we should make a dec..." with â•
00:37:38	felipe:	Reacted to "we should make a d..." with â•
00:37:43	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "we should make a dec..." with â•
00:38:10	Åukasz Rozmej:	I got lost
00:38:16	Marius van der Wijden:	I agree we should put in the work to make it final
00:38:20	Åukasz Rozmej:	ğŸ‘
00:38:25	Dragan Rakita:	We could do without the field in devnet-2
00:38:33	Jen:	Reacted to "We could do without ..." with ğŸ‘
00:38:58	Guru:	Reacted to "We could do without ..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:06	felipe:	Reacted to "We could do withou..." with ğŸ‘
00:39:18	Jen:	Reth could make it without the field in devnet-2 this week.
00:39:29	Marius van der Wijden:	@Toni could you write it up again in discord so we make sure everyone is aligned on the same thing
00:39:42	felipe:	Reacted to "@Toni could you wr..." with â•
00:39:44	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Here's a short sumary:
https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/1460715235437580369/1463837761982300288
00:39:46	Jen:	Reacted to "@Toni could you writ..." with â•
00:40:09	Stefan Starflinger:	Then lets make the change by removing it from the receipt and try to make devnet-2 asap
00:40:14	Jen:	Reacted to "Then lets make the c..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:19	Guru:	Reacted to "Then lets make the c..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:28	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "Then lets make the c..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:34	felipe:	Reacted to "Then lets make the..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:34	spencer-tb:	Reacted to "Then lets make the c..." with ğŸ‘
00:40:49	felix (eest):	Reacted to "Then lets make the..." with ğŸ‘
00:41:33	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Here's another thread with some context on 7778:
https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/688075293562503241/1461678093289656524
00:41:37	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Then lets make the c..." with ğŸ‘
00:42:46	Barnabas:	@James He is the beacon api question devnet 0 critical?
00:43:43	nflaig:	@BarnabasÂ not really, clients can implement whatever works now, we are not running mixed client setups for now I'd assume
00:43:52	James He:	@Barnabas I donâ€™t think so I think we are going with the 2 step process for devnet 0
00:44:07	Justin Traglia:	Could we try to launch epbs-devnet-0 in ~10 days? I donâ€™t feel comfortable freezing specs for devnet-1 before launching devnet-0.
00:44:13	James He:	Btw I assume people wonâ€™t have the ptc stuff for devnet 0 right?
00:44:28	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Could we try to laun..."

With one or two clients.
00:45:01	James He:	Do we also have the new updated timelines for other stuff like attestations etc for devnet 0 or do we have the original timelines for devnet 0?
00:45:22	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to Then lets make the c... with "ğŸ‘"
00:45:29	James He:	Or is there a list of assumptions for devnet 0?
00:45:37	nflaig:	https://github.com/ethereum/beacon-APIs/pull/552
00:45:52	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Or is there a list o..."

https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/epbs-devnet-0
00:45:54	Mario Vega:	I thought NC was nico, sorry ğŸ˜…
00:46:12	NC:	Replying to "I thought NC was nic..."

happens all the time haha
00:46:46	Eitan:	Replying to "Could we try to launâ€¦"
fwiw itâ€™ll be a stretch for LH to be ready for a devnet in 10 days. A more realistic target for us is mid to end feb
00:47:13	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "@Toni could you writ..." 

 https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/688075293562503241/1465354383717040303
00:47:16	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Could we try to laun..."

Hmm okay. According to ethpandaops, the goal is Feb 18th for devnet-0.
00:47:27	Barnabas:	lets push this beacon api changes to devnet 1 scope, so that clients can ship faster.
00:47:33	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "@Toni could you writ..." 

 Oh yeah! ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
00:47:39	James He:	Replying to "Or is there a list o..."

Right, I guess 7732 is probably too big to have everything by devnet 0 ( or are people aiming to have everything) I thought we wanted to do it more incrementally such as not having the ptc voting as part of devote 0
00:47:47	Eitan:	Reacted to "Hmm okay. According â€¦" with ğŸ‘
00:47:48	Mario Vega:	Replying to "Then lets make the c..."

Weâ€™ll prepare a tests release asap
00:48:27	Dustin:	Nimbus doesn't care about the exact timeline of when the beacon API changes go in; we're using pure-BN (no separate VC) for devnet-0
00:48:46	nflaig:	https://github.com/ethereum/beacon-APIs/pull/552
00:48:50	NC:	I brought up the fork choice issue couple weeks ago https://discord.com/channels/595666850260713488/874767108809031740/1458127259549437992 . Sounds like it doesnâ€™t require synchronization @Dustin
00:48:54	nflaig:	also in general more yes on the PR would be nice
00:49:02	nflaig:	eyes*
00:49:23	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Weâ€™ll prepare a test..." with ğŸ‘
00:51:11	Dustin:	Replying to "I brought up the f..."

yeah looks like it can coexist
00:51:41	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/beacon-APIs/pull/552
00:52:18	nflaig:	there is ongoing discussion in #apis channel so feel free to chime in there
00:53:08	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "there is ongoing dis..." with ğŸ™ğŸ¼
00:53:58	Dustin:	generically the concern is that it modifies in-production Electra/Fulu
00:54:22	Dustin:	the question isn't whether its "tiny", it's whether it can cause consensus risks
00:54:50	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "the question isn't w..."

Iâ€™m not sure that it can cause consensus issues
00:55:01	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "the question isn't w..."

But Francesco isnâ€™t here to give you a better answer
00:56:31	Dustin:	ok, if there are no consensus issues, it's fine
00:56:48	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "ok, if there are no ..."

Letâ€™s double check with Francesco. Iâ€™ll make a thread.
00:57:09	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/issues/4858
00:57:37	Barnabas:	alpha 2 is aimed for epbs-devnet-1
01:00:00	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1882#issuecomment-3791951548
01:01:25	Ansgar Dietrichs:	EIPs proposed for inclusion in the next devnet should be posted to the ACD-T agenda ahead of time

Decisions around CFI -> SFI or CFI -> DFI willÂ notÂ be discussed in ACD-T and should remain within ACD-E, ACD-C

Is a devnet inclusion decision not basically an SFI decision?
01:02:18	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "EIPs proposed for in..." with â•
01:02:19	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "EIPs proposed for in..."

or rather, if we end up not SFI-ing an EIP after it was included in a devnet, that was wasted effort
01:02:51	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Reacted to EIPs proposed for in... with "â•"
01:03:26	Barnabas:	EOF was SFI-ed it can still be pulled out
01:03:59	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Clients provided great rankings and cfi'd eips should j just be included in the order based on how much support they gained.
01:04:05	Barnabas:	CFI = have impl.
01:04:31	Dustin:	Replying to "EOF was SFI-ed it ..."

I mostly take the whole EOF saga as an indication that it was SFI'd prematurely. Of course that might otherwise happen, but it shouldn't be routine
01:05:22	Jen:	Reacted to "CFI = have impl." with ğŸ‘
01:05:28	Ansgar Dietrichs:	I think itâ€™s fine to make devnet decisions here on acdt, now that everyone is aware to pay attention here. just ideally have it clearly on the agenda ahead of time
01:05:43	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s fine to..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:57	Pooja Ranjan:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s fine to..." with ğŸ‘
01:05:58	felix (eest):	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s fine..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:24	Barnabas:	if we donâ€™t want an EIP in the protocol it shoudlnâ€™t even be cfi-ed lmao
01:06:34	Stefan Starflinger:	A spec is never really finished until we have a working implementation
01:06:48	wolovim:	Reacted to "I think itâ€™s fine to..." with ğŸ‘
01:06:54	Stefan Starflinger:	we shouldn't SFI a Spec we should SFI a spec + implementation
01:06:58	Ansgar Dietrichs:	and whatâ€™s the general connection between implementation and devnet? are there usually any implementations before devnet inclusion? how easy is it to pull individual EIPs back out of a devnet?
01:07:13	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "if we donâ€™t want an ..." 

 That's what you might think
01:07:29	wolovim:	psa: iterating on devnet decision making aid here: https://forkcast.org/devnets. Feedback/feature requests welcome.
01:07:33	Dustin:	it's also how intertwined it is
01:07:57	Justin Florentine (Besu):	and testing impact
01:08:22	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	What is the conclusion now?
01:08:29	Ansgar Dietrichs:	and (sorry last question) would it be too bureaucratic to have an initial decision on a devnet scope, but then a week later on the next acdt make a go-no go decision? that way clients would have a week to look at the selected EIPs and start implementation
01:08:45	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "and (sorry last ques..."

so we could catch EIPs that are more complex than expected
01:09:18	Dustin:	but mostly CLs don't all have the same per-EIP modularity as ELs might have
01:09:30	Dustin:	where they can be often granularly enabled/disabled
01:09:57	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	How did we get to the 4 eips that are now added to devnet 2? Not opposed to any of them but would be good to have a clear process
01:10:30	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1882#issuecomment-3795075740
01:11:03	Barnabas:	Replying to "How did we get to th..."

steel proposed as easy eips to have test cases out for
01:11:15	Dragan Rakita:	In general I would really like for ACD to have a async decision making (with deadlines) this live process is chaotic.
01:11:25	Barnabas:	Replying to "How did we get to th..."

we asked ppl on acdt if anyone had any issues having these for the next devnet, no objections, so this is what we set out as a goal
01:11:28	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "In general I would r..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:11:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "In general I would r..."

you mean ACDT now or ACDC/E or all of the above?
01:12:02	Toni WahrstÃ¤tter:	Replying to "How did we get to th..." 

 Ok, if that's the process I'm fine with it. Doesn't need to be formalized. I trust testing and devops to have a good feeling for it. Still, the level of support should also matter.
01:12:07	Ziad Ghali:	Reacted to "CFI = have impl." with ğŸ‘
01:12:11	Pooja Ranjan:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/hardfork-meta-bpo1/27582
01:12:14	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "In general I would r..."

I am very optimistic to say everything ğŸ˜„
01:12:27	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Reacted to "I am very optimistic..." with ğŸ˜‚
01:12:41	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "In general I would r..."

makes sense. agree this would be helpful, but itâ€™s also challenging
01:12:56	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "In general I would r..."

anyway, dropping off for now. a conversation that we should continue
01:13:07	Dragan Rakita:	Replying to "In general I would r..."

I agree, hope dies last
01:13:11	Ansgar Dietrichs:	are we waiting for someone to say goodbye?
01:13:14	Pooja Ranjan:	I think I lost audio
01:13:16	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "In general I would r..." with ğŸ‘ğŸ¼
01:13:17	Jen:	Reacted to "I think I lost audio" with â¤ï¸
01:13:19	Eitan:	Reacted to "are we waiting for sâ€¦" with ğŸ˜…
01:13:19	Dragan Rakita:	Reacted to "are we waiting for s..." with â¤ï¸
01:13:21	NC:	Reacted to "are we waiting for s..." with ğŸ˜…
01:13:28	Eitan:	Reacted to "I think I lost audio" with â¤ï¸
01:13:32	Ansgar Dietrichs:	Replying to "I think I lost audio"

no I think people were unsure whether we were waiting for comments
