WEBVTT

1
00:09:47.430 --> 00:09:49.080
Parithosh Jayanthi: Hello, everyone.

2
00:10:16.310 --> 00:10:20.390
Parithosh Jayanthi: Let's give people another half a minute to join, and then we can start off.

3
00:11:04.780 --> 00:11:17.709
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, let's start off then. The first topic on the agenda is Susaka. Barnabas, do you want to give us updates on forks slash PPOs that happened the last week?

4
00:11:19.120 --> 00:11:28.790
Barnabas: Sure. We went through Sepolia Hartford last week, and the first BPO is scheduled for tomorrow in…

5
00:11:29.040 --> 00:11:30.450
Barnabas: A few hours.

6
00:11:31.200 --> 00:11:38.960
Barnabas: BP01 will, increase the target to 10, and max to 15 blobs on Sapori as well.

7
00:11:39.620 --> 00:11:49.399
Barnabas: And then the next BPO will be a week from now, on the 28th of October, and on the same day, later on, we're gonna have the hoodie, hard fork as well.

8
00:11:51.250 --> 00:11:56.549
Parithosh Jayanthi: And were there any… were there any bugs to discuss from Sepolia's fork?

9
00:11:57.610 --> 00:12:05.860
Barnabas: No, the only issue that we had is a few operators forget to update their node, but other than that, we didn't discover any bugs.

10
00:12:11.300 --> 00:12:17.219
Parithosh Jayanthi: Perfect. Are there any bugs or issues that client teams are tracking that they want to bring up?

11
00:12:32.920 --> 00:12:42.370
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, that's good in that case. I know that the Ethereum Foundation blog has a new post.

12
00:12:42.630 --> 00:12:54.009
Parithosh Jayanthi: Especially for, the consumers of blobs, regarding what, changes when you… for example, you need to compute proofs now before you submit your transactions.

13
00:12:54.130 --> 00:13:13.639
Parithosh Jayanthi: There will be another blog post coming out as well that will detail the transaction cap limit. So we have a 16 million transaction cap limit that goes live with Osaka, and there's a couple of considerations for people who are using transactions. For example, if you have a cold store with pre-signed transactions.

14
00:13:13.640 --> 00:13:16.690
Parithosh Jayanthi: You might need to make sure that the…

15
00:13:16.780 --> 00:13:29.980
Parithosh Jayanthi: upgrade doesn't break anything for you. So we're gonna have this, released soonish, and yeah, just please keep an eye out for that. And if there's any other UX or RPC-related, issues that

16
00:13:30.210 --> 00:13:39.729
Parithosh Jayanthi: users of blobs have realized, were enabled after Fusaka on Sepolia, then please reach out to us, and we start tracking and fixing those issues before we end that.

17
00:13:42.850 --> 00:13:54.549
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, anything else regarding the fork updates? Are there any client releases that are scheduled for, Hoodie? Or are we good to go with the existing releases?

18
00:13:58.310 --> 00:14:06.039
pawan: I think we are going to release, a newer new RC, maybe tomorrow?

19
00:14:07.010 --> 00:14:10.070
pawan: yeah, that's it for us.

20
00:14:11.650 --> 00:14:14.389
pawan: It has a few bug fixes, and

21
00:14:14.840 --> 00:14:22.819
pawan: We are also trying to get in the semi-super node mode for it, but, yeah.

22
00:14:23.260 --> 00:14:28.839
pawan: No promises on this semi-super node one, but, like, we needed to get a few bug fixes out.

23
00:14:32.420 --> 00:14:38.299
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect. If you want us to deploy the release anywhere before it goes out, then please let us know.

24
00:14:40.920 --> 00:14:42.070
Parithosh Jayanthi: Andrew?

25
00:14:42.700 --> 00:14:58.160
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, so we had an issue with Aragon producing invalid blocks on Hoodie, and that was fixed in our latest release, 3.2.1. It was released today, so that is the recommendation for Hudi.

26
00:14:59.770 --> 00:15:04.819
Barnabas: May I ask, why was it only producing in, like, blocks in Hudi and nowhere else?

27
00:15:05.740 --> 00:15:12.240
Andrew Ashikhmin: I think, it actually happened, when, a transaction

28
00:15:12.350 --> 00:15:18.049
Andrew Ashikhmin: Depended on the beacon route, maybe on other chains, there were no such transactions.

29
00:15:28.390 --> 00:15:37.199
Parithosh Jayanthi: Well, could we maybe discuss more details on our shared chat? We'd probably want to have this as a codified test somewhere as well.

30
00:15:38.530 --> 00:15:42.590
Andrew Ashikhmin: Yeah, so we wrote about it on the Steel Discord.

31
00:15:44.090 --> 00:15:46.099
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect, then it should be tracked.

32
00:15:46.380 --> 00:15:47.100
Parithosh Jayanthi: Awesome.

33
00:15:47.240 --> 00:15:49.440
Parithosh Jayanthi: Thank you. Lucas?

34
00:15:49.440 --> 00:15:55.079
Łukasz Rozmej: Not that mine had a release today, but it's optional for Hudi, nothing required.

35
00:16:00.390 --> 00:16:01.640
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect.

36
00:16:03.040 --> 00:16:18.649
Parithosh Jayanthi: We'd probably be doing an update of the blog in that case, but we'll batch both the Lighthouse as well as Aragon and Netherland issues. And yeah, it seems like there's an optional release of GET as well, so seems like a round of updates for releases are in order.

37
00:16:22.040 --> 00:16:35.769
Marius van der Wijden: Yes. So, one thing about that release, it, our release on the gas team, it enables, the conversion for blobs on send raw transactions.

38
00:16:36.190 --> 00:16:43.330
Marius van der Wijden: So, for those L2s that are still,

39
00:16:43.590 --> 00:16:46.409
Marius van der Wijden: That are still sending the wrong transactions.

40
00:16:46.760 --> 00:16:49.590
Marius van der Wijden: Just… they can either…

41
00:16:49.780 --> 00:17:00.449
Marius van der Wijden: fix their code, which is preferable, or they can use a version of Geth, like, like with a new release that will convert those.

42
00:17:02.220 --> 00:17:07.290
Parithosh Jayanthi: And will Gets do this by default, or is this a new flag that needs to be enabled?

43
00:17:07.290 --> 00:17:09.100
Marius van der Wijden: This will be done by default.

44
00:17:10.030 --> 00:17:15.560
Marius van der Wijden: And it's also… there's no flag for it, so… Yes.

45
00:17:15.770 --> 00:17:22.150
Marius van der Wijden: it, it puts… additional strain on the… on the… on the RPC providers.

46
00:17:22.680 --> 00:17:28.440
Marius van der Wijden: So that is something that RPC providers may want to look out for in the future, is that they…

47
00:17:28.640 --> 00:17:35.819
Marius van der Wijden: They themselves, reject non… Cell-approved transactions in the future.

48
00:17:38.990 --> 00:17:45.280
Parithosh Jayanthi: And does this mean GET would do this indefinitely, or for, let's say, the next 100 epochs or something after the fork?

49
00:17:45.650 --> 00:17:49.180
Marius van der Wijden: Probably, like, the next one or two releases.

50
00:17:50.250 --> 00:17:51.329
Marius van der Wijden: After the fork.

51
00:17:56.660 --> 00:17:57.980
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, thank you.

52
00:18:02.450 --> 00:18:06.890
Parithosh Jayanthi: Cool, okay, Bezu has, an optional release as well.

53
00:18:07.940 --> 00:18:13.320
Parithosh Jayanthi: And to Mehdi's point, Hoodie should already be at 60 million, if I'm not wrong.

54
00:18:14.130 --> 00:18:22.670
Mehdi Aouadi: Okay, cool. Then, we will also have a new release for Teku. We were hesitating if we had to reverse the 60 million guests or not, so yeah.

55
00:18:22.670 --> 00:18:22.990
Parithosh Jayanthi: Nope.

56
00:18:24.060 --> 00:18:26.410
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, Hoodie's already at 60 million, so we should be.

57
00:18:26.410 --> 00:18:32.849
Mehdi Aouadi: Okay, perfect. So, we will have a release, pretty soon in the next coming, days, probably.

58
00:18:32.990 --> 00:18:35.600
Mehdi Aouadi: With some, yeah, with some fixes.

59
00:18:36.440 --> 00:18:37.700
Parithosh Jayanthi: Perfect. Thank you.

60
00:18:40.520 --> 00:18:42.720
Parithosh Jayanthi: Any other Fusapa topics?

61
00:18:44.730 --> 00:18:49.220
Barnabas: Maybe not Fusaka, but, Hosky,

62
00:18:49.280 --> 00:19:08.489
Barnabas: POSCI is going to be shut off by the end of this month, which is basically next week, Friday. I started to see some operators already shutting off their node now, so if you know anyone that is running any infrastructure on POSCII, please let them know to migrate as soon as possible away from it.

63
00:19:08.750 --> 00:19:15.969
Barnabas: Because I would expect non-finality on Hosky by probably the end of this week, if latest by end of next week.

64
00:19:17.400 --> 00:19:27.789
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think there's at least a few providers who are also just, like, they'll have their infra up until this billing cycle, and then they're gonna not renew their infrastructure, so…

65
00:19:28.290 --> 00:19:35.960
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, please expect Polsky to not necessarily be a control shutdown that will happen at a specific epoch, but a gradual degradation.

66
00:19:37.470 --> 00:19:42.789
Barnabas: Ideally, I think we should also put out a blog post regarding this to remind everyone.

67
00:19:45.590 --> 00:19:48.060
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, maybe we can work on that this week.

68
00:19:52.230 --> 00:20:01.179
Parithosh Jayanthi: Marchin, you had a update for ModX pricing, do you want to go? I guess I was… that is semi-related to Fusaka?

69
00:20:08.890 --> 00:20:12.620
Łukasz Rozmej: I'm not sure if you're talking to Martin, I think Martin is absent.

70
00:20:13.030 --> 00:20:13.980
Łukasz Rozmej: But…

71
00:20:15.190 --> 00:20:32.769
Łukasz Rozmej: We were doing… never mind, we were doing investigation into, does, Fusaka changes, and especially Modex pre-pricing, make any existing transactions fail? Does it… is it problematic for the users?

72
00:20:32.810 --> 00:20:45.289
Łukasz Rozmej: We scanned 100,000 blocks, And found some issues with user operations, with account obstruction, but,

73
00:20:45.750 --> 00:20:56.480
Łukasz Rozmej: Upon further investigation, we think that, you know, they would just be repriced in the, after Fusaka and priced correctly, so no major issues found.

74
00:20:59.220 --> 00:21:00.350
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, Marek?

75
00:21:00.630 --> 00:21:19.480
marek: Yeah, let me chime in a little bit here, because, our approach is to increase the gas limit for the transaction, and the problem is that you cannot do this with the patterns like you have in account abstraction user operations, when you bundled many transactions.

76
00:21:19.800 --> 00:21:38.729
marek: And, those user operations has their own gas limit, so we cannot trace it correctly. And I think it will be relevant for Carl, because I know that he's doing some exploration for gas pricing in general.

77
00:21:38.840 --> 00:21:51.709
marek: how to… how to test those things. Yeah, so only issues that we detect are related to this user operations, so far, with this amount of blocks.

78
00:21:58.850 --> 00:22:03.770
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, thank you. Are there any follow-up questions or discussion points?

79
00:22:08.420 --> 00:22:09.130
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay.

80
00:22:09.560 --> 00:22:13.509
Parithosh Jayanthi: Last call for Fusaka. Is there anything else to discuss on Fusaka?

81
00:22:20.890 --> 00:22:28.969
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, cool. Then we'll move on to gas limit and PUFNet updates. I can start with, I guess, Puff DevNet 2.

82
00:22:29.100 --> 00:22:41.690
Parithosh Jayanthi: End of last week, there was a bit of forking. There was Carlos from the Nethermine team who was looking into it, and some of the nodes are healthy now. There is still a Nethermine node that's unhealthy.

83
00:22:41.980 --> 00:22:51.249
Parithosh Jayanthi: And we synced up a new node to start allowing us to switch the network ID, and make sure that the network doesn't immediately break.

84
00:22:53.280 --> 00:23:06.760
Parithosh Jayanthi: But we didn't want to do this while the network was still unhealthy, so I guess once the Nethermine node is fixed fully, then we'll start rolling this out. I also know that, there's someone from Eragon who wants to run a few tests on PostDevNet2,

85
00:23:07.070 --> 00:23:13.459
Parithosh Jayanthi: But is there… are there any other, state testing updates or gas limit updates that people want to share?

86
00:23:28.810 --> 00:23:32.850
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, then keep an eye out for…

87
00:23:33.160 --> 00:23:35.299
Parithosh Jayanthi: For some updates on both DevNet, too.

88
00:23:36.200 --> 00:23:43.409
Parithosh Jayanthi: Let's move on to block-level access lists, then. Stefan, do you have an update on that?

89
00:23:44.900 --> 00:23:47.190
Stefan Starflinger: So far, we're…

90
00:23:47.850 --> 00:24:04.709
Stefan Starflinger: pretty good progress with Bezo and Geth. They're working pretty well. And in my tests, NetherMind seems also very close, so I think we should be very close to a definite zero with Bezo, Geth, and NetherMind. And we're gonna start setting it up this week.

91
00:24:04.960 --> 00:24:06.060
Stefan Starflinger: So far.

92
00:24:06.630 --> 00:24:19.989
Stefan Starflinger: And otherwise, for, like, other, spec changes, like FOSSO, it would be nice to know what the status is and EPBS. That would also be nice, if the clients have some updates on those.

93
00:24:21.070 --> 00:24:28.069
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, but before we move there, I just wanted to quickly ask Tony or someone from his team if they also have any

94
00:24:28.230 --> 00:24:33.810
Parithosh Jayanthi: Block-level access list-related changes we should keep an eye out for before we launch the DevNet.

95
00:24:36.290 --> 00:24:49.319
Toni Wahrstätter: Nothing really in particular. So, we will have a block of access list breakout call on Wednesday, and we will discuss, Coinbase handling, so how we will treat, the Coinbase address. There are some

96
00:24:49.520 --> 00:24:57.760
Toni Wahrstätter: Interesting edge cases around that, but nothing we didn't already, have in the specs or in the tests.

97
00:24:59.380 --> 00:25:05.819
Parithosh Jayanthi: So, awesome. So, even if there's a breaking change, I guess that can belong to DevNet1 instead of DevNet 0.

98
00:25:08.760 --> 00:25:13.270
Toni Wahrstätter: Right, yeah. But there, I wouldn't expect the breaking change there.

99
00:25:17.090 --> 00:25:27.109
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, perfect. In case anyone wants to help, I think one of the bigger topics right now is how to best visualize the block-level access list.

100
00:25:27.190 --> 00:25:37.149
Parithosh Jayanthi: Especially in DORA, and to make it simpler for debugging, so… Yeah, we're gonna be shipping some things, and if you don't like it, then tell us what we can improve to…

101
00:25:37.250 --> 00:25:38.840
Parithosh Jayanthi: Make it easier to debug.

102
00:25:40.520 --> 00:25:41.230
Parithosh Jayanthi: Good.

103
00:25:41.230 --> 00:25:43.680
Toni Wahrstätter: Laura, we have already something.

104
00:25:43.970 --> 00:25:57.979
Toni Wahrstätter: So, there is already a tab in the Explorer, in DORA, where we can see the entries of the block web accesses. Something we, still have to, do is the metrics. So, Katya was introducing that.

105
00:25:58.290 --> 00:26:02.659
Toni Wahrstätter: So feel free and look into the block of Access List Discord.

106
00:26:02.950 --> 00:26:05.140
Toni Wahrstätter: This is something that is still open.

107
00:26:08.620 --> 00:26:09.300
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay.

108
00:26:10.160 --> 00:26:15.490
Parithosh Jayanthi: Anything from the EPBS crowd? Do we have anyone to give us an update?

109
00:26:18.450 --> 00:26:20.289
Justin Traglia: I guess I can start.

110
00:26:20.920 --> 00:26:29.249
Justin Traglia: What did I say? We have an upcoming breakout call this Friday. I just posted the agenda. Please comment if there's anything you'd like to bring up.

111
00:26:29.730 --> 00:26:34.960
Justin Traglia: Last week at ACDC, we did decide to keep the,

112
00:26:35.640 --> 00:26:42.250
Justin Traglia: like, trusted, trustless payments thing, as is. So, like, what the spec currently is.

113
00:26:43.120 --> 00:26:49.939
Justin Traglia: And, I guess I don't know much else. Maybe client teams can give an update on their implementations for DevNet Zero?

114
00:27:00.460 --> 00:27:06.690
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, Justin, is there a spec that we can tag in the, DevNet spec sheet?

115
00:27:07.630 --> 00:27:12.790
Justin Traglia: Yeah, the Beta 0, spec is for DevNet 0.

116
00:27:13.390 --> 00:27:21.680
Justin Traglia: We do plan on releasing a new Beta 1, release probably sometime this week, but we're not gonna update the…

117
00:27:21.850 --> 00:27:24.100
Justin Traglia: spec version for DevNet Zero.

118
00:27:26.230 --> 00:27:32.569
Barnabas: But this spec is pretty much, as is, and you don't expect much changes anymore, right?

119
00:27:33.710 --> 00:27:36.010
Justin Traglia: I can't answer that.

120
00:27:36.200 --> 00:27:41.440
Justin Traglia: I mean, I'm sure the spec is gonna change from now, between, over the next few months.

121
00:27:41.680 --> 00:27:44.010
Justin Traglia: But yeah, I mean, it's in a good spot for DevNet.

122
00:27:49.300 --> 00:28:00.290
Parithosh Jayanthi: Yeah, I think the last update we got was it'll still take a few weeks to get the implementations out, but if any client has something ready and wants us to start testing early, then please reach out.

123
00:28:04.150 --> 00:28:16.810
Parithosh Jayanthi: The next topic on the list was RPC updates. I see that Lukash and a few others have been engaging on the, on the JSON RPC API.

124
00:28:16.990 --> 00:28:24.209
Parithosh Jayanthi: chat on, R&B Discord. Do you guys want to give us a summary? What's the biggest topic being discussed right now?

125
00:28:31.560 --> 00:28:32.910
marek: If not, who cares?

126
00:28:32.910 --> 00:28:46.599
Łukasz Rozmej: I can say, sorry. Don't think that much, so there was some discussion if, for example, should we parse very strictly or more loosely? I'm leaning to more loosely, but

127
00:28:46.730 --> 00:28:51.680
Łukasz Rozmej: Felix was trying to convince me that we should go more strictly,

128
00:28:51.680 --> 00:29:11.160
Łukasz Rozmej: So overall, we adjusted our implementation a lot, and for example, for this, we will be parsing strictly by default, but have a flag to parse loosely if, like, some client really want it, some of our users really want it. And I think we, like, we and Bezu and Aragon and,

129
00:29:11.200 --> 00:29:12.850
Łukasz Rozmej: Ref,

130
00:29:13.140 --> 00:29:20.299
Łukasz Rozmej: increased compatibility a lot with Hive tests, RPC Compat and not only, so I think that's really…

131
00:29:20.510 --> 00:29:23.940
Łukasz Rozmej: Good progress here, something is moving.

132
00:29:25.850 --> 00:29:27.790
Łukasz Rozmej: Marek, do you want to add something?

133
00:29:28.830 --> 00:29:30.889
marek: No, no, you covered it well.

134
00:29:34.220 --> 00:29:44.739
Parithosh Jayanthi: Awesome. Thank you for the update, and also, just as a reminder, we have a weekly, bot that will post how RPC Compact is doing.

135
00:29:44.810 --> 00:29:55.749
Parithosh Jayanthi: And I think there's at least two clients with positive improvements this week, and never mind with passing 13% more tests than last week, so this is definitely a good direction.

136
00:29:56.060 --> 00:29:57.789
Parithosh Jayanthi: So yeah, thank you for that.

137
00:30:01.840 --> 00:30:07.709
Parithosh Jayanthi: Anything else for the RPC slash RPC compatibility, discussion?

138
00:30:12.610 --> 00:30:21.569
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, the next topic on the agenda was that we're modifying a bit of our comms approach from both the testing teams.

139
00:30:21.760 --> 00:30:30.249
Parithosh Jayanthi: So, we have the, Steel Discord server, and if you're a client dev, you should have gotten an invitation to the server.

140
00:30:30.300 --> 00:30:48.520
Parithosh Jayanthi: The PandaOps team traditionally had a lot of disparaging chats, like, they were all over the place, some were on Discord, some were on Telegram, some on MetaMost, and instead of having them all over the place, we decided with the testing team that, we would have one channel per

141
00:30:48.600 --> 00:30:55.139
Parithosh Jayanthi: client team, and one channel that both Steel as well as the PandaOps team would share with you.

142
00:30:55.390 --> 00:31:15.069
Parithosh Jayanthi: And this is the channel that we would use for all future communications, for debugging, etc. And if you haven't gotten an invitation, if you're unaware of this, then please let us know. But this should allow us to streamline comms a bit more, also between the two testing teams itself, so that we know what's going on, and if either one of us has to update tests.

143
00:31:20.560 --> 00:31:30.729
Parithosh Jayanthi: That was just a brief update on our side, and, yeah, I guess we're mostly done with the agenda. Is there any open topic people would like to discuss today?

144
00:31:31.330 --> 00:31:33.490
Parithosh Jayanthi: If not, we'd be ending early.

145
00:31:46.870 --> 00:31:51.609
Parithosh Jayanthi: Okay, then thank you everyone for coming, and see you at the…

146
00:31:52.120 --> 00:31:54.480
Parithosh Jayanthi: Sorry, I'll see you at the next book.

147
00:31:58.510 --> 00:31:59.530
Parithosh Jayanthi: Bye-bye.

148
00:31:59.530 --> 00:31:59.870
Manu: Thank you.

149
00:31:59.870 --> 00:32:00.320
Marius van der Wijden: B-bang.

150
00:32:00.870 --> 00:32:01.609
Antoine James: Thanks, everyone.

151
00:32:01.610 --> 00:32:02.750
Andrew Ashikhmin: Thank you.

152
00:32:02.750 --> 00:32:03.590
marek: Bye.

153
00:32:03.590 --> 00:32:04.240
Justin Traglia: run.

