00:03:58	lightclient:	gm
00:04:03	Yassine Ferhane:	gm
00:04:06	wolovim:	Reacted to "gm" with üåû
00:04:48	Justin Traglia:	Gm
00:05:14	Fredrik:	Reacted to "gm" with üåÖ
00:05:17	Fredrik:	Reacted to "gm" with üåÖ
00:05:20	Fredrik:	Reacted to "Gm" with üåÖ
00:06:02	Stefan Starflinger:	hello
00:06:46	James He:	Prysm released post mortem main net incident
00:07:05	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Gm" with üåÖ
00:07:07	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Prysm released post ..."

https://prysm.offchainlabs.com/docs/misc/mainnet-postmortems/#fusaka-mainnet-prysm-incident
00:07:30	James He:	https://prysm.offchainlabs.com/docs/misc/mainnet-postmortems/
00:07:35	James He:	Reacted to "https://prysm.offcha..." with üëç
00:07:45	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://prysm.offcha..." with üíØ
00:07:47	Bharath:	Reacted to "https://prysm.offcha..." with üëç
00:08:05	Mario Vega:	https://github.com/ethereum/execution-spec-tests/releases/tag/bal%40v2.0.0
00:10:53	felipe:	Reacted to "https://github.com..." with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:14:03	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4788 

In the PR we've made, builders will be tracked in a new builders list in the state. Some key changes: There is no activation queue for builders. Top-up deposits are instant, as soon as they hit the CL. The minimum builder balance is 1 ETH. Builders will not be able to perform partial withdrawals; only do full exits. Builders cannot be slashed nor penalized, which leads to a few nice simplifications for payments. Builder payments are faster since they don't need to go through the exit queue & min validator withdrawal delay.
00:15:08	Mario Vega:	How would this list be bootstraped at fork boundary?
00:15:46	Pawan Dhananjay:	We‚Äôd need some time to review this for lighthouse
00:16:49	Barnabas:	Reacted to "We‚Äôd need some time ..." with üëç
00:17:16	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1835
00:19:32	Justin Traglia:	https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4777
00:20:43	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	i'll take a look
00:20:52	Barnabas:	Reacted to "i'll take a look" with üëç
00:20:54	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "i'll take a look" with üôè
00:23:40	Pawan Dhananjay:	The preferences are just gas limit and fee_recipient right?
00:24:09	Pawan Dhananjay:	Gotcha, I‚Äôll check it out
00:24:15	Bharath:	Replying to "Gotcha, I‚Äôll check i..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4777/commits/779d0037dd12f272bb0e4bc84add20833416bddb
00:24:34	Bharath:	https://github.com/ethereum/builder-specs/pull/138
00:25:15	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

is this built on top of 4788?
00:25:34	Barnabas:	Replying to "https://github.com/e..."

https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/pull/4788
00:25:43	Justin Traglia:	Also, consensus devs, please review the following PRs. I would like to merge them today:

Refactor process_withdrawals¬†consensus-specs#4765
Refactor get_expected_withdrawals¬†consensus-specs#4766
00:26:23	Pawan Dhananjay:	Replying to "Gotcha, I‚Äôll check i..."

My first instinct is trusted_payments_accepted is unnecessary as the proposer doesn‚Äôt have to adhere to this preference in any way
00:26:49	Justin Florentine (Besu):	this guy gets it
00:26:55	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:26:57	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:26:57	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üöÄ
00:26:59	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üòÑ
00:26:59	wolovim:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üìà
00:27:00	Marc:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:27:01	draganrakita:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üöÄ
00:27:03	draganrakita:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üìà
00:27:04	draganrakita:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:27:11	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:27:13	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "this guy gets it"

He is just trying to emulate the original
00:27:20	Alexey:	if we will have shorter slots, it might be not good to increase it now, unless we are ready to double it next time?
00:27:25	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üöÄ
00:27:25	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üòÑ
00:27:53	Justin Florentine (Besu):	Replying to "this guy gets it"

ben has his own, significant energy lets goooooo
00:28:00	Ben Adams:	Replying to "if we will have shor..."

Don't think shorter slots needs to effect it
00:28:53	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:29:12	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	perfect
00:29:20	Alexey:	Replying to "if we will have shor..."

You will have less time for execution?
00:29:36	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "if we will have shor..."

Yeah, shorter slots should adjust GAS independently
00:30:30	Alexey:	Replying to "if we will have shor..."

I mean in 6 sec slot time 80 will feel like 160
00:31:06	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "if we will have shor..."

So if we go to 6, at activation gas limit will be halved, independently by current value
00:32:14	Alexey:	Reacted to "So if we go to 6, at..." with üëç
00:33:01	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	Quite a broad topic so worth hearing from others - but maybe once we will have solid numbers?
00:33:02	wolovim:	It was only 2 one-off sessions
00:33:28	Maria Silva:	Replying to "Quite a broad topic ..."

Yeah, agreed
00:33:57	Alexey:	https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/pull/9942 will be ready tomorrow
00:34:14	Barnabas:	Reacted to "https://github.com/N..." with üëç
00:35:29	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "ben has his own, sig..." with üíú
00:35:38	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "this guy gets it" with üî•
00:35:55	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	Reacted to "https://github.com/N..." with üëç
00:36:02	Ra√∫l Kripalani:	Reacted to "https://github.com/N..." with üéâ
00:36:27	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "My first instinct is..." with üëç
00:37:17	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	Not controversial - not seeing much value in voting gas limit on validators side while blobs are specd
00:37:22	Justin Traglia:	Replying to "Gotcha, I‚Äôll check i..."

I‚Äôve reverted the trusted_payments_accepted change. We can discuss adding that later, if/when the PR is merged.
00:38:34	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	Would be nice to have networks parameters be on specification to be set.
 
Imagine giving slot time as a parameter for validators to decide on :D
00:38:58	Barnabas:	Replying to "Would be nice to hav..."

Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]
[Full message cannot be displayed on this version]
00:39:07	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	Reacted to "Replying to "Would..." with üòÇ
00:39:10	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGY..." with üòÇ
00:39:13	Alexey:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGY..." with üòÇ
00:39:16	Akash | ECH:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:39:28	Luca | Vero:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:39:32	Ben Adams:	Replying to "Would be nice to hav..."

Voting on slot time; changing per block?
00:39:39	Pawan Dhananjay:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:39:53	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:40:09	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	Replying to "Would be nice to h..."

but only can decrese by 0.001% per block
00:40:48	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:40:54	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:43:42	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Replying to "Would be nice to hav..."

ü§Ø
00:43:53	Enrico Del Fante (tbenr):	Reacted to "Giphy [ID:1T96TRBBGYThC]" with üòÇ
00:47:51	Stefan Starflinger:	https://notes.ethereum.org/@ethpandaops/bal-devnet-1 updated devnet note for bals
00:48:28	Stefan Starflinger:	(not all the branches for ELs are available yet)
00:49:00	Barnabas:	https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/h-star-name-for-consensus-layer-upgrade-after-glamsterdam/24298/16?u=bbusa
00:49:01	nixo:	TIL how to pronounce chase‚Äôs discord handle
00:49:13	Chase Wright:	Reacted to "TIL how to pronounce..." with üòÇ
00:49:32	Kamil Chodo≈Ça:	In Nethermind we built sth similar for RPC benchmarking - Carlos is not there but asked him already to comapre and see the way forward if we should continue our effort or we should collab to make it generally better
00:49:37	nixo:	the portmanteau is already up too!
https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/h-star-name-for-consensus-layer-upgrade-after-glamsterdam/24298/18
00:49:37	Barnabas:	Heka -> Heze
00:50:09	Ben Adams:	Hezgota
00:50:11	Leo:	I can look at the pronuntiation
00:50:16	nixo:	Reacted to "I can look at the pr..." with üíô
00:50:18	Barnabas:	Reacted to "I can look at the pr..." with üíô
00:50:30	Chase Wright:	Replying to "In Nethermind we bui..."

Based on my notes and overall goals, it would be a perfect collaboration to combine these 2 repos and unify the architecture.
00:50:42	Barnabas:	18dec - ACDE
22dec - ACDT Cancelled 
25dec - ACDC Cancelled
29dec - ACDT Cancelled
1jan - ACDE Cancelled
5jan - ACDT -> ACDE 
8jan - ACDC
12jan - ACDT
00:51:16	Ben Adams:	Reacted to "18dec - ACDE
22dec -..." with üëç
00:51:21	Akash | ECH:	Reacted to "18dec - ACDE
22dec -..." with üëç
00:51:22	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "18dec - ACDE
22dec -..." with üëç
00:51:23	Ameziane Hamlat:	Reacted to "In Nethermind we bui..." with üëç
00:51:28	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "18dec - ACDE
22dec -..." with üëç
00:51:31	nixo:	core devs being forced to take time off by calls landing exactly on holidays
00:51:32	0xAphrodETH:	I think shorter is better, maybe Hekta
00:51:39	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "core devs being forc..." with üòÇ
00:51:39	Jen:	Reacted to "18dec - ACDE
22dec -..." with üëç
00:51:44	Barnabas:	Reacted to "core devs being forc..." with üòÇ
00:51:47	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "core devs being forc..." with üòÇ
00:51:49	Maria Silva:	Reacted to "18dec - ACDE
22dec -..." with üëç
00:51:49	James He:	Last one please haha
00:51:56	Tullio Canepa | Erigon:	Reacted to "In Nethermind we bui..." with üëç
00:51:57	Ben Adams:	Replying to "I think shorter is b..."

Hezta
00:52:02	James He:	Reacted to "core devs being forc..." with üòÇ
00:52:05	Katya:	Call for next week
00:52:06	0xAphrodETH:	Reacted to "Hezta" with üëç
00:52:07	Tullio Canepa | Erigon:	Reacted to "Based on my notes an..." with üëç
00:52:15	James He:	I don‚Äôt want*
00:52:16	nixo:	Replying to "Last one please haha"

he‚Äôs saying this is the last one?
00:52:21	Katya:	Reacted to "I don‚Äôt want*" with üòÇ
00:52:26	nixo:	Reacted to "I don‚Äôt want*" with üëç
00:52:28	James He:	Replying to "Last one please haha"

This one as the last one please
00:52:54	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "I don‚Äôt want*" with üëç
00:53:12	Katya:	Happy holidays
00:53:15	Barnabas:	18dec - ACDE
22dec - ACDT Cancelled 
25dec - ACDC Cancelled
29dec - ACDT Cancelled
1jan - ACDE Cancelled
5jan - ACDT -> ACDE 
8jan - ACDC
12jan - ACDT
00:53:16	Mario Vega:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:18	James He:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:18	Stefan Starflinger:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:19	Luis Pinto | Besu:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:21	Leo:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:21	Yassine Ferhane:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:23	Luca | Vero:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
00:53:32	Justin Traglia:	Reacted to "Happy holidays" with ‚ù§Ô∏è
